P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
«FNAME» «LNAME»
«ADDRESS1»
«CITY», «ST» «ZIP»
Dear Anthem Blue Cross Member:
This letter is to inform you that Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (Henry Mayo) agreement
with Anthem Blue Cross has terminated effective April 1, 2026. As a result, Henry Mayo will no
longer be a part of the Anthem Blue Cross Commercial Network.
Anthem Blue Cross physicians who admit to Henry Mayo have been notified of this development
and will arrange for admission of Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health
Insurance Company members to alternate facilities. Note that the partial list of alternate
facilities below may not be participating in all Anthem networks. Please verify with your
provider and/or use the Find Care feature on the Anthem Blue Cross website at anthem.com/ca
or the Sydney App to see if the alternate facility is participating in your benefit plan’s network.
• Northridge Hospital Medical Center, 18300 Roscoe Blvd, Northridge, CA 91325-4105
• Pacifica Hospital of the Valley, 9449 San Fernando Rd, Sun Valley, CA 91352-1421
• Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center, 18321 Clark St, Tarzana, CA 91356-3501
• Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, 15031 Rinaldi St, Mission Hills, CA 91345-1207
• Simi Valley Hospital And Health Services, 2975 Sycamore Dr, Simi Valley, CA 93065-1201
• Valley Presbyterian Hospital, 15107 Vanowen St, Van Nuys, CA 91405-4542
We realize that if you are in a course of treatment it’s important not to interrupt that care. If you
decide to keep using Henry Mayo after March 31, 2026, you may pay more, or all, of the costs
for the care you receive from them.
There may be exceptions
You may be able to stay with Henry Mayo for a designated period of time designated period of
time under California or federal law if you are receiving care for:
Under California Law Under Federal Law
Are pregnant or just had your baby. • In treatment for a serious and complex
Have a maternal mental health condition condition. This can be a sudden (acute) illness
that has been diagnosed by your treating that requires specialized treatment in order to
care provider. avoid death or permanent harm. It can also be
Are caring for a child up to 36 months old. an ongoing (chronic) illness that is life
Are getting pre-approved care threatening or potentially disabling and
(performance of surgery or other requires specialized care over a long period of
procedure). time.
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
[date]
Have an acute condition or serious • In a hospital or other inpatient facility.
chronic condition. • Scheduled for nonelective surgery by your
Have a terminal illness. current doctor, including your post-operative
care for the surgery.
• Pregnant.
• Terminally ill.
Questions Pertaining to CA State Continuity of Care-COC
If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may have a right to keep your
provider for a designated time period. Please contact the Anthem Blue Cross at the toll-free
customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, or the toll-free member services telephone
number on your identification card, and if you have further questions, you are encouraged to
contact the Department of Managed Health Care, which protects consumers, by telephone at
its toll-free number, 1-888-466-2219, or at a TDD number for the hearing and speech impaired
at 1-877-688-9891, or online at www.dmhc.ca.gov.
Questions Pertaining to Federal Continuity of Care-COC
If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may have a right to keep your
provider for a designated time period. Please contact Anthem Blue Cross by using the toll-free
customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, OR the toll-free member services number on your
current ID card, and if you have further questions.
An Anthem Blue Cross Customer Service representative can assist you. Eligibility for continuity of
care depends on factors outlined in your Evidence of Coverage and Anthem Blue Cross’ Continuity
of Care Policy. You can access and print Continuity of Care Policies online by visiting our website,
www.anthem.com/ca. Begin by clicking on the Member Support. Under the Support Column,
select ‘FAQs’. Next select the box entitled ‘Benefits & Claims’ to arrive at a listing of questions.
Click on the plus (+) sign next to the question, “How do I request continuity of care/transition?”
to obtain the response along with a link to the “Continuity of Care, Transition of Care Policy”.
Click on the link to access the policy. You can also access and print the Continuity of Care Policy
at anthem.com/docs/public/inline/pw_e234999_ca_jr.pdf.
Note: HMO members wishing to request continuity of care/completion of covered services should
contact their participating medical group.
If you are enrolled in a point-of-service (POS) plan or preferred provider organization (PPO) and
continue to access Henry Mayo after the expiration date, you may have significantly higher out-
of-pocket costs. Your Evidence of Coverage outlines your coverage for seeking care from a
provider who is not part of our network. Also, Customer Service can provide this information.
Emergency medical services do not require pre-authorization regardless of where services are
delivered. Members may go to any Hospital for emergency services, including Henry Mayo. This
coverage will be provided according to your policy benefits.
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
[date]
Your enrollment in your Anthem Blue Cross or Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company plan remains the same and is not otherwise affected in any way. If you receive a bill
from Henry Mayo that exceeds the amount indicated as the member responsibility on the
Explanation of Benefits you receive from Anthem Blue Cross/Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health
Insurance Company for services rendered after March 31, 2026, please contact Anthem Blue
Cross at the toll free customer service number, 1-877-971-0117, or the toll-free member services
number on your ID card, so that it may be handled appropriately.
Your health care needs are very important to us, and we are committed to providing you with
exceptional service. Please be assured that your health care coverage will not be interrupted and
that this Hospital’s termination will not result in a change to your covered benefits.
Sincerely,
Anthem Blue Cross
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.