Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
April 14, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Approval with Conditions
Proposed Contract Termination with Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-256
Filed on March 2, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) has reviewed the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Henry Mayo
Newhall Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently June 1, 2026.
The Plan proposes to redirect affected enrollees to the following Alternate Hospitals:
• Adventist Health Simi Valley
• Northridge Hospital Medical Center
• Pacifica Hospital of the Valley
• Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center
• Providence Holy Cross Medical Center
• Valley Presbyterian Hospital
Based on the Plan’s representations and information provided through the review
process, the Department hereby approves the Plan’s Filing, subject to the following:
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California April 14, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 2
1. If the contract terminates, the Plan will allow its contracted providers and provider
groups to continue referring services to the Terminating Hospital after the
Termination Date, and to continue to allow all affected enrollees in ZIP Code
91354 to receive at the Terminating Hospital after the Termination Date:
a. any medically necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital,
but not available or cannot be scheduled in a timely manner consistent
with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or other in-
network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance, or
b. any medically necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital
where an in-network provider holds admitting privileges at the Terminating
Hospital and is unable to admit enrollees to an Alternate Hospital or other
in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice. or
c. any medical necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital
which, due to insufficient capacity, an enrollee may not be able to access
at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility
within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely manner consistent
with good professional practice.
2. For the Plan’s affected enrollees in ZIP Code 91354 accessing the Terminating
Hospital under Condition 1, the Terminating Hospital will continue to be deemed
a participating, in-network provider. For these affected enrollees accessing the
Terminating Hospital, the copayment, deductible, percentage coinsurance or any
other cost sharing components for care accessed under the aforementioned
conditions shall be no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would
have had if the enrollee received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior
to the Termination Date.
If a dispute arises between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan concerning the
reasonable and customary value of the provider's service, the Plan shall protect
and hold the enrollee harmless for any amount above the enrollee's in-network
copay, deductible, coinsurance or other cost sharing component.
3. For the Plan’s affected enrollees in ZIP Code 91354 accessing the Terminating
Hospital under Condition 1, the Plan will directly pay to the Terminating Hospital,
as applicable:
a. the amount required by any post-termination rates set forth in the contract
between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital,
b. the amount set forth in any negotiated letter of agreement or other
negotiated arrangement between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital
regarding the services, or
Blue Cross of California April 14, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 3
c. the reasonable and customary value of the hospital's services, less the
enrollee's established in-network copay, deductible, coinsurance or other
cost sharing component.
4. The Plan will not take any adverse action, financial or other, against the
Terminating Hospital with regards to the services identified in these conditions
(this does not preclude the Plan or Terminating Hospital from utilizing any dispute
resolution mechanism that would otherwise be available). In addition, the Plan
will not take any adverse action, financial or other, against any contracted
provider for admitting affected enrollees to the Terminating Hospital in order to
receive services required by these conditions.
5. With respect to these conditions, “deemed to be a participating in-network
provider” does not apply to emergency services or post-stabilization services
rendered to Plan members at the Terminating Hospital following the Termination
Date, nor does it affect any existing statutory and/or regulatory payment
obligations with respect to these services.
6. No later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the Plan shall
provide written notice to each enrollee who has an upcoming procedure
authorized or scheduled at the Terminating Hospital within the next six
months, as well as those who had accessed the Terminating Hospital at least
once during the past year, subject to any waivers granted by the Department.
In addition, no later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the
Plan shall provide written notice to all PPO enrollees living within 15 miles of the
terminating hospital. The Plan may send this notice electronically if enrollees
elect to receive electronic notification.
The notices shall be consistent with the conditions of this Approval, including
informing enrollees of the availability to access the Terminating Hospital at in-
network benefit levels.
7. Within five (5) calendar days following the Department’s issuance of this
decision, the Plan shall submit proposed provider notices to the Department for
approval. The Plan shall not distribute provider notices until it receives
Department approval as to the form and content of the notices.
8. No later than ten (10) calendar days following the Termination Date, the Plan will
notify, in writing, those contracted providers and provider groups that may be
affected by the contract termination. The provider notices shall be consistent with
the conditions of this Approval and include:
a. the termination and effective date of termination,
b. the conditions of this Approval, and
Blue Cross of California April 14, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 4
c. the method by which providers may refer and admit enrollees to the
Terminating Hospital such that enrollees may access the Terminating
Hospital at in-network rates in accordance with the conditions of this
Approval.
9. With respect to enrollees who are approved to receive Completion of Covered
Services from the Terminating Hospital, the Plan shall ensure that the copay,
deductible, percentage coinsurance or any other cost sharing component for
such care is no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would have
had if he or she received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior to the
Termination Date. (See Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1373.96.).
10. After reviewing the Plan’s Filing, the Department has determined that in the event
of contract termination, the enrollees residing or working in the following ZIP
Codes within the Plan’s approved service area for at least one applicable
network will no longer have access to an in-network, acute care hospital within
15 miles or 30 minutes:
• 91354
The Plan shall file with the Department, no later than 60 days following the
Termination Date, a Notice of Material Modification requesting alternative
standards of accessibility for the affected portion of its service area, including the
ZIP Codes listed above, if the Plan does not have a pending or Department
approved alternative access filing which already addresses the distance from the
enrollees’ residence or workplace to the Alternate Hospitals in the affected
service area. (See Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1352; Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§§ 1300.51(d)(H)(i) and 1300.67.2.1.).
11. If the Plan reaches an agreement with the Terminating Hospital after the above
enrollee transfer notices are sent, the Plan must promptly inform the Department
and convey an additional enrollee notification to each affected enrollee, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, §
1300.67.1.3(f).
12. In the event that the effective date of removal of the Terminating Hospital from
the Plan’s network is delayed by 90 or more days, the Plan must request, and the
Department must grant an extension of this Approval for it to remain in effect.
13. If the Plan determines that information submitted in this Filing is materially
incorrect or has been updated, it will promptly notify the Department. The Plan
must also promptly notify the Department of any changed circumstances or new
information that is material to this Filing.
14. The Department reserves the right to revoke, modify or terminate this approval at
any time based upon changed circumstances or new information that is material
Blue Cross of California April 14, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 5
to the filing, or for non-compliance by the Plan with any of the Conditions listed
above.
15. The Department's Conditional Approval of this Block Transfer Filing and the
requirement that the Plan submit a Notice of Material Modification requesting
alternative access standards for those ZIP Codes identified as outside of the
15/30 mileage/minute standard does not constitute approval (express or implied)
of an alternative access standard. The Notice of Material Modification required to
be submitted by the Plan under Condition 10, above, will be reviewed in
accordance with requirements set forth in the Act and, to the extent that one or
more ZIP Codes cannot be approved for an alternate access standard, the Plan
will be required to take all steps necessary to ensure that its provider network
(throughout the Plan's entire service area) offers access in accordance with all
applicable statutory and regulatory requirements concerning network adequacy.
(See Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 1371.31(a)(5), 1367(d)&(e), & 1375.9; Cal.
Code Regs., Tit. 28, §§ 1300.51(d)(H)&(I), 1300.67.2, 1300.67.2.1, 1300.67.2.2.)
If the Plan cannot ensure that its provider network offers access in accordance
with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements concerning network
adequacy for any of the applicable ZIP Codes that cannot be approved for an
alternate access standard, the Department may require the Plan to withdraw
those ZIP Codes from its service area for each affected network.
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring