Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 3, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-256
Filed on March 2, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Henry Mayo Newhall
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
2. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
3. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Henry
Mayo Newhall Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 2
4. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the Block
Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination from
the Alternate Hospitals, and if so, whether that contract is set to terminate
within the next 6 months,
d. Contract termination date,
e. Whether the contract is evergreen and confirm whether each evergreen
contract will automatically renew.
5. In the event of contract termination where the Plan removes the Terminating
Hospital from its contracted provider network, please summarize or confirm the
following that may result:
a. The Plan’s process for ensuring compliance with Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§ 1300.51(d)(H)(ii). (ii) Hospitals. In the case of a full-service plan, all
enrollees have a residence or workplace within 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracting or plan-operated hospital which has a capacity to serve the
entire dependent enrollee population based on normal utilization, and, if
separate from such hospital, a contracting or plan-operated provider of all
emergency health care services.
6. The Plan identifies a total of 2,758 enrollees who will travel beyond 15 miles or
30 minutes from his/her PCP post-termination. For the ZIP codes in the table
below, please confirm whether the Plan has alternative access standards
approved by the Department (including the filing number and approval date).
ZIP Code Number of Enrollees
91354 1,375
93532 1,383
7. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
8. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 3
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
9. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
10. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
11. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
12. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 10, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 4
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring