P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
«FirstName» «LastName», «Title»
«Address»
«City», «St» «Zip»
RE: Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital / Notification of Contract Termination
Dear Sir or Madam:
This letter is to inform you that Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (Henry Mayo) agreement with Anthem Blue Cross
(Anthem) has terminated effective June 1, 2026. As a result, Henry Mayo will no longer be part of the Anthem Commercial
Network. From that date forward, Anthem generally will no longer authorize or approve scheduled or elective admissions to
Henry Mayo for Anthem or Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company members.
Before receiving services at Henry Mayo, Anthem members should be advised by hospital personnel that the Agreement
terminated on June 1, 2026. The contract termination could affect the out-of-pocket obligations of Anthem HMO and Point of
Service (POS) members using their PPO benefits who receive care at Henry Mayo. Members who have Medicare Part C are
affected, however, those with a Medicare supplemental policy for Part A and Part B (Medigap), are not affected by this contract
termination.
What Henry Mayo Termination Means for HMO Medical Groups/IPAs:
1. Admitting Privileges at Alternate Anthem Participating Facilities
As you know, the Prudent Buyer Plan Participating Physician Agreement requires that members be admitted to an Anthem
participating facility to ensure they receive the maximum possible benefits from their plan. Consequently, it is necessary for
participating physicians who admit patients to Henry Mayo to have medical staff privileges or make alternate admitting
arrangements at Anthem participating hospitals. Below is a partial list of alternate participating general acute care hospitals:
• Adventist Health Simi Valley
• Northridge Hospital Medical Center
• Pacifica Hospital of the Valley
• Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center
• Providence Holy Cross Medical Center
• Valley Presbyterian Hospital
Note that the alternate facilities may not be participating in all Anthem networks. Anthem members have been advised to
verify with both their provider and the Anthem website at www.anthem.com/ca that the alternate facility is participating in
their benefit plan’s network. For a complete listing of alternate contracted facilities, including general acute care hospitals,
ambulatory surgery centers, laboratories and radiology centers, and dialysis centers, to which Anthem and Anthem Life and
Health Insurance Company members may be directed, please reference our website noted above. If you have questions or
need additional information, please send an e-mail to https://www.anthem.com/ca/provider/contact-us/.
2. Continuity of Care/Completion of Covered Services (COC) for Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company
Members
Continuity of Care/Completion of Services-COC is considered under both (A) California State Law and (B) Federal Law.
A. Continuity of Care-COC under California State Law as explained below:
California law provides for completion of covered services/continuity of care for certain medical conditions following a
provider’s contract termination if, among other things, the SCVHC and Anthem agree on a rate of payment. The current
contract between Anthem and SCVHC has provisions that cover members for continuity of care/completion of covered
services after the contract terminates. If a member began a course of treatment at SCVHC before the contract
Anthem is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the
Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
termination date for one of the following conditions, the member or his or her physician can request continuity of care
by contacting his/her medical group/IPA for one of the following conditions:
Under California law, this includes care if:
• Members in an active course of treatment for an acute medical or behavioral health condition
• Members in an active course of treatment for a serious chronic condition
• Members who are pregnant, regardless of trimester
• Members with a maternal mental health condition diagnosed by their treating health care provider
• Members with a terminal illness
• Members who are newborn children between the ages of birth and 36 months
The member’s participating medical group/IPA must approve all services. If approved, the claim will be covered at the
member’s in-network coverage schedule of benefits. If not approved by the member’s participating medical group/IPA,
and services are received at SCVHC, the claim may be denied as stated in the member’s EOCs.
B. Continuity of Care-COC under Federal Law as explained below:
Federal Law also provides potential COC rights. This includes care if any of the below apply. The member should contact
the Transition Assistance Department, as described below, if they believe they qualify.
Under Federal law, this includes care if:
• In treatment for a serious and complex condition. This can be a sudden (acute) illness that requires specialized
• treatment in order to avoid death or permanent harm. It can also be an ongoing (chronic) illness that is life
threatening or
• potentially disabling and requires specialized care over a long period of time.
• In a hospital or other inpatient facility.
• Scheduled for non-elective surgery by your current doctor, including your post-operative care for the surgery.
• Pregnant.
• Terminally ill.
Eligibility for Federal continuity of care depends on certain factors. Continuity of care/completion of covered services
will be considered by the Anthem on a case-by-case basis. When a case is approved, the claim is processed at in-network
benefit levels.
3. The California Department of Managed Health Care (DMHC) has mandated that, for members enrolled in benefit plans
regulated by the DMHC, contracted providers and medical groups may continue to refer members to Henry Mayo Newhall
Memorial Hospital (Henry Mayo) for services rendered on or after June 1, 2026, but only as specifically described below.
Eligible services will be covered at in-network benefit levels, subject to the conditions outlined below:
Anthem will allow its contracted providers and provider groups to continue referring services to Henry Mayo after June 1,
2026, and to continue to allow all affected enrollees in ZIP Code 91354 to receive at Henry Mayo after June 1, 2026 for:
a. any medically necessary services available at Henry Mayo, but not available or cannot be scheduled in a timely
manner consistent with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital
facility within a reasonable geographic distance, or
b. any medically necessary services available at Henry Mayo where an in-network provider holds admitting privileges at
Henry Mayo and is unable to admit enrollees to an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility
within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice. or
c. any medical necessary services available at Henry Mayo which, due to insufficient capacity, an enrollee may not be
able to access at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice.
Anthem is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the
Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
4. Emergency Admissions
Emergency medical services do not require pre-authorization regardless of where services are delivered. Henry Mayo must
still provide services for Anthem members requiring emergency health services. This coverage will be provided according to
our members’ policy benefits.
Anthem patients who have questions about care at Henry Mayo following the termination should be directed to call their medical
group or our toll-free customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, or the toll-free member services number on their ID card. The
Anthem Customer Service staff is available to help our members with concerns about their ongoing care.
Thank you for your continued support during this transition.
Sincerely,
Jo Ann Nishimoto, MD, MBA, FAAP
Director of Medical Operations
Anthem is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the
Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.