Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with O’Connor Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-277
Filed on March 18, 2026
Dear Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove O’Connor Hospital
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently July 1, 2026
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
3. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 2
4. Please confirm the Plan has zero medical groups which routinely and non-
routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital.
5. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and O’Connor
Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
6. The Plan indicates that Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital. Please specify which Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital and confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
7. The Plan did not indicate what services are offered at the Terminating Hospital.
Please confirm if the following services are available:
a. Abortion Services
b. Acute Neonatal
c. Acute Pediatric
d. Acute Psychiatric
e. Burn Services
f. Coronary ICU
g. Heart Catheterization
h. Hemodialysis
i. Labor Delivery Room
j. Neonatal ICU
k. Neuro Surgery
l. Open Heart Surgery
m. Pediatric ICU
n. Petscan
o. Radiation Therapy
8. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
9. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 3
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
10. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer
11. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
12. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
13. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
14. Please affirm that the Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026 via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 4
Sincerely,
Christopher Loyd
Supervisor I
Office of Plan Monitoring