Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with O’Connor Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-277
Filed on March 18, 2026
Dear Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove O’Connor Hospital
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently July 1, 2026
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
Plan Response1: The Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling
Enrollee Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Plan Response2: The Plan will not transition its enrollees or send Enrollee
Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 2
3. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Plan Response3: The hospital termination is part of a health system termination;
all four hospitals are under a single contract.
4. Please confirm the Plan has zero medical groups which routinely and non-
routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response4: No (0) medical groups routinely and non-routinely utilized the
Terminating Hospital.
5. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and O’Connor
Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Plan Response5: The contract termination between the Plan and the
Terminating Provider impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
6. The Plan indicates that Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital. Please specify which Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital and confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
Plan Response6: The historical OSHPD/HCAI annual disclosure dataset shows
a positive (1) indicator for the Oncology service line at the Terminating Hospital.
For Alternate Hospital(s) where the OSHPD/HCAI dataset did not clearly indicate
Oncology, the Plan also reviewed facility websites and applied the same
indicator-level approach (oncology services offered: Yes/No) to confirm oncology
service availability at El Camino, Good Samaritan, Washington, etc. The Plan
relied on OSHPD/HCAI where definitive and used website review as
supplemental confirmation to support service-line level oncology availability,
recognizing that “Oncology” is a broad category and that website content is not
standardized or comprehensive.
7. The Plan did not indicate what services are offered at the Terminating Hospital.
Please confirm if the following services are available:
a. Abortion Services
b. Acute Neonatal
c. Acute Pediatric
d. Acute Psychiatric
e. Burn Services
f. Coronary ICU

Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 4
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
Plan Response9: No provider groups primarily utilize the
Terminating Hospital.
10. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer
Plan Response10: The Plan outreaches to the hospitals with occupancy
rates at 80% or higher and documented any concerns and capacity
response(s) in the filing portal. For hospitals with occupancy rates <80%,
justification is not provided as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's
capacity to serve additional plan enrollees per §1300.67.1.3(2)(L): “Based
upon the data made public on the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development's website, for each of the proposed Alternate Hospitals,
provide the available bed occupancy rate for the most recently completed
calendar year. If the rate is at 80% or higher, please provide justification
as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's capacity to serve additional
plan enrollees.” All alternate hospitals are <80% capacity.
11. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response11: Please refer to Plan Response4.
12. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 5
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Plan Response12: The Plan does not anticipate any problems with the ability of
the Alternate Hospitals to provide the same services available at the Terminating
Hospital. If there is a service identified that is a covered benefit and only
available at the terminating hospital the Plan will make every effort to ensure
services are provided at the terminating hospital. When a covered service is not
available or accessible at a participating network hospital or specialty facility in
the Plan’s’ network, members will be allowed to receive that service at a non-
participating hospital as appropriate, reimbursed at in-network benefit levels.
13. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response13: To date, there are no enrollees who have a procedure
scheduled and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating post-termination.
14. Please affirm that the Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
Plan Response14: The Plan affirms that Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's
Narrow Networks meet the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards
and/or Department approved alternative access standards.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026 via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Christopher Loyd
Supervisor I
Office of Plan Monitoring
Note to Reviewer: Below are the responses to the additional questions received on
March 19th:
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
O’Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-277 Page 6