Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 18, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Lea Anna Tonkin
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc.
400 N. Brand Blvd. Suite 400.
Glendale, CA 91203
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with UC Davis Medical Group
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-101
Filed on March 12, 2026
Dear Ms. Lea Anna Tonkin,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of
California, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health
Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.)
and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove UC Davis Medical
Group (Terminating Provider Group) from the Plan’s provider network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Provider Group and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm whether the provider group termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is
a stand-alone contract.
2. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and UC Davis
Medical Group impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
3. Please confirm whether the Receiving Provider Group have admitting privileges
to an in-network hospital.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 18, 2026
UC Davis Medical Group; 2026-PROV-101 Page 2
4. The following receiving provider groups below have enrollees who will travel
beyond the 15 mile, 30 minute geographic access standard. Please state the
Plan’s justification for assigning these enrollees to PCPs beyond 15 miles or 30
minutes of their residence. In addition to the Plan’s justification, please confirm,
in the event that these enrollees all elect to change their PCP, that the Plan has
PCPs within 15 miles or 30 minutes of these enrollees with the capacity and
availability to receive them.
5. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Receiving Provider Groups and the
Plan’s primary care network, please provide or confirm:
a. Any written communications (Confirmation of Capacity) to or from each
Receiving Provider Group regarding the Block Transfer, and any
information demonstrating each Receiving Provider Group has sufficient
capacity and PCPs with current availability to accommodate the
reassigned enrollee population,
6. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s specialist network, please
provide or confirm:
a. Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the
full scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its
enrollees,
b. Any specialties available within the Terminating Provider Group that would
not be available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any specialties no longer available to affected enrollees as a
result of the proposed transition, please explain how those
enrollees will continue to access such specialty services,
c. The name and contact information for each Receiving Provider Group
responding to this issue.
7. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s hospital network, please
provide or confirm:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from any of the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals, and if so,
whether that contract is set to terminate within the next six months,
b. Any inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to affected
enrollees through the Terminating Provider Group that would not be
available through any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected
enrollees as a result of the proposed transition, please explain how
enrollees will continue to access such services.
8. To assess continuity of care for enrollees affected by the Block Transfer, please
identify or confirm:
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 18, 2026
UC Davis Medical Group; 2026-PROV-101 Page 3
a. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or
approved to receive a procedure or service from a provider within the
Terminating Provider Group within 180 days of the Termination Date,
b. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or
approved to receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the
Termination Date from a hospital utilized by the Terminating Provider
Group, but not utilized by the enrollee’s Receiving Provider Group,
9. Please indicate whether the Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan
enrollees assigned to UC Davis Medical Group.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 25, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Doyle
Elizabeth Doyle
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring