Lea Anna Tonkin
Legal Compliance Sr. Advisor
Enterprise Compliance/Regulatory Licensing/Reporting
March 25, 2026
Elizabeth Doyle Routing B6LPA/HHHH
Analyst II 900 Cottage Grove Road
Office of Plan Monitoring Bloomfield, CT 06002
Department of Managed Health Care Tel 860.902.6866
980 9th Street, Suite 500 Leaanna.Tonkin@Cignahealthcare.com
Sacramento, CA 95814
Via DMHC Web Portal
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with UC Davis Medical Group
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-101
Filed on March 12, 2026
Dear Ms. Doyle,
This is in response to your comment letter regarding the information in the above-referenced Block
Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. (Plan.)
Please review the Plan’s responses below.
1. Please confirm whether the provider group termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a stand-
alone contract.
The Plan confirms that UC Davis Medical Group is part of the University of California
System termination. The contract is a stand-alone contract.
2. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and UC Davis Medical
Group impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
The Plan confirms this contract termination between the Plan and UC Davis Medical
Group impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
3. Please confirm whether the Receiving Provider Group have admitting privileges to an in-
network hospital.
The Plan confirms the Receiving Provider Group has privileges to several Cigna
network facilities, including but not limited to, Sutter and Dignity hospitals in the
Sacramento market.
4. The following receiving provider group, Hill Physicians Medical Group, Inc., below have
enrollees who will travel beyond the 15 mile, 30 minute geographic access standard. Please
state the Plan’s justification for assigning these enrollees to PCPs beyond 15 miles or 30
minutes of their residence. In addition to the Plan’s justification, please confirm, in the event
that these enrollees all elect to change their PCP, that the Plan has PCPs within 15 miles or
30 minutes of these enrollees with the capacity and availability to receive them.
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 25, 2026
Page 2
There are currently three enrollees who fall outside the 15 mile, 30 minute geographic
access standard. Upon further review, the Plan has determined that these enrollees
live in rural/remote areas and have historically traveled beyond the 15 mile, 30 minute
geographic access standard for their current care. Additionally, one enrollee is out of
the area. In the event the affected enrollees wish to elect another PCP, they have the
right to do so.
5. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Receiving Provider Groups and the Plan’s
primary care network, please provide or confirm:
a. Any written communications (Confirmation of Capacity) to or from each Receiving
Provider Group regarding the Block Transfer, and any information demonstrating
each Receiving Provider Group has sufficient capacity and PCPs with current
availability to accommodate the reassigned enrollee population.
The Plan has received email confirmation from Hill Physican’s Medical Group.
Please refer to the email confirmation submitted with this response.
6. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s specialist network, please provide or
confirm:
a. Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the full scope
of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its enrollees,
The Plan confirms the Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers
to deliver the full scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s
contract with its enrollees.
b. Any specialties available within the Terminating Provider Group that would not be
available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
The Plan confirms all specialties are available within the Receiving Provider
Group.
i. For any specialties no longer available to affected enrollees as a result of
the proposed transition, please explain how those enrollees will continue to
assess such specialty services,
The Plan confirms that in the event an enrollee requires a service not
available through the Receiving Provider Group, the Plan will execute
the necessary case agreement to ensure continued access to care.
c. The name and contact information for each Receiving Provider Group responding to
this issue.
The Receiving Provider Group’s contact information is below:
• Cynthia Marshall, Cynthia.marshall@hpmg.com
7. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s hospital network, please provide or
confirm:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination from any of
the Receiving Provider Groups’ primary hospitals, and if so, whether that contract is
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 25, 2026
Page 3
set to terminate within the next six months,
The Plan confirms that it has neither sent nor received a notice of contract
termination from any of the Receiving Provider Groups’ primary hospitals.
b. Any inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to affected enrollees
through the Terminating Provider Group that would not be available through any of
the Receiving Provider Groups,
Th Plan confirms all services are available at the Receiving Provider Groups
hospitals.
i. For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected enrollees as
a result of the proposed transition, please explain how enrollees will
continue to access such services.
The Plan confirms that in the event an enrollee requires a service not
available through the Receiving Provider Group’s hospitals, the Plan
will execute the necessary case agreement to ensure continued access
to care.
8. To assess continuity of care for enrollees affected by the Block Transfer, please identify or
confirm:
a. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to
receive a procedure or service from a provider within the Terminating Provider
Group within 180 days of the Termination Date,
The Plan confirms there are currently no open authorizations for this period.
b. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to
receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the Termination Date from a
hospital utilized by the Terminating Provider Group, but not utilized by the enrollee’s
Receiving Provider Group.
The Plan confirms there are currently no open authorizations for this period.
9. Please indicate whether the Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees
assigned to UC Davis Medical Group.
The Plan confirms an Enrollee Notice will be issued to all impacted enrollees.
Please contact me directly at 860.902.6866 or via email at Leaanna.tonkin@cignahealthcare.com
should you have any additional questions or concerns.
Sincerely,
Lea Anna Tonkin
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.