Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
February 23, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Samantha Uiagalelei
UHC of California
5701 Katella Avenue
Cypress, CA 90630
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Temecula Valley Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-237
Filed on February 18, 2026
Dear Ms. Samantha Uiagalelei:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by UHC of California (Plan) for
compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of
1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the regulations
promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Temecula Valley
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 30, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. On the Block Transfer Filing Form, the Plan reports zero bed days and zero
admits for HMO and PPO enrollees. Please confirm there were zero HMO bed
days utilized, zero HMO admits, zero PPO bed days utilized, and zero PPO
admits.
2. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Temecula
Valley Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
3. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
UHC of California February 23, 2026
Temecula Valley Hospital; 2026-HOSP-237 Page 2
a. The number of PPO members who reside within a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital,
b. Whether all of the Alternate Hospitals are in-network facilities for PPO
members,
c. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all medically
necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
d. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
4. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
5. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
6. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
7. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
UHC of California February 23, 2026
Temecula Valley Hospital; 2026-HOSP-237 Page 3
a. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, or other high-level specialty
services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
8. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 2, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring