
Either way, you’ll get a new Cigna ID card in the mail with your new doctor and new
medical group information.
What if your provider does go out-of-network?
If your provider leaves your health plan network, he/she will no longer have a contract with
your health plan. This means you'll likely pay more for the same services. For example,
you would have to pay 100% of the cost (if your plan doesn't have an out-of-network
benefit).
If you are enrolled in a Point of Service plan, refer to your out-of-network certificate for
benefit plan information regarding out-of-network coverage.
CA Required Notice: If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you
may have a right to keep your provider for a designated time period. Please contact Cigna
Healthcare's customer service department, and if you have further questions, you are
encouraged to contact the Department of Managed Health Care, which protects
consumers, by telephone at its toll-free number, 1-888-466-2219, or at a TDD number for
the hearing and speech impaired at 1-877-688-9891, or online at www.dmhc.ca.gov.
You may be eligible to continue receiving treatment from your provider for a specified
period of time. This is called Continuity of Care. It’s available for certain medical
situations. These include upcoming surgery, treatment of a serious chronic or acute
condition, terminal illness, care of a newborn child between birth and age 36 months, care
during pregnancy, maternal mental health, or any other procedure that is authorized by the
plan as part of a documented course of treatment.
You’ll find a Continuity of Care brochure and application form online at Cigna.com.
1. Go to Cigna.com.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on Find a Form.
3. Select Medical Forms, and then choose For California – specific forms and
plan information, visit our Cigna Healthcare in California page.
4. Scroll down to Transition of Care and Continuity of Care and select the
Continuity of Care Brochure in the second paragraph.
We encourage you to apply for Continuity of Care as soon as possible, ideally within 30
days of receipt of this letter.
If you do not wish to apply for Continuity of Care to see this terminated provider, you can
locate a new provider through the provider directory: www.cigna.com/hcpdirectory
Call us anytime at {800.Cigna24 (800.244.6224)}
Our Customer Service Advocates are available 24/7/365, and can help you find an in-
network provider in your area. We can help with transitioning other parts of your care,
including new referrals, prescriptions, and Continuity of Care eligibility.
We’ll send you a letter as soon as we know whether your provider will stay in-network. If
you have any questions or concerns, we’re here to help, 24/7/365. For TRS or TTY
services, dial 711 when you call.
Para información en Español, por favor llame al numero telefónico que aparece en su
tarjeta o al {1.800.244.6224} (Customer Service) y pida hablar con un representante que
hable Español.
We realize this change may be difficult. We appreciate your patience and understanding.
Know that we are committed to ensuring you have quality, affordable choices to meet your
medical needs. We’ll do all we can to make this change go smoothly for you.
Thank you for choosing Cigna Healthcare.
Sincerely,
Cigna Healthcare Customer Service
Frequently Asked Questions
What if I am receiving ongoing treatment on July 1, 2026 or have been
approved for services that start after July 1, 2026?
You may be eligible for Continuity of Care. This process allows you to continue in-
network coverage for certain medical and behavioral treatment for a defined period
of time after the provider leaves your network, based on your plan benefits, federal
law or state law. To be eligible, you must be receiving a course of ongoing,
medically necessary treatment. Here’s what you need to know:
Qualifying conditions and treatments
Your plan materials include details about the conditions and treatments that qualify
for continuity of care. Depending on your plan benefits, federal law or state laws,
such conditions may include but, are not limited to:
• upcoming surgery,
• treatment of a serious chronic or acute condition,
• terminal illness,
• care of a newborn child between birth and age 36 months,
• care during pregnancy,
• maternal mental health, or
• any other procedure that is authorized by the plan as part of a documented
course of treatment.
To find out more about Continuity of Care, please call us at the toll-free number on
the back of your Cigna Healthcare ID card or [1.800.244.6224], or use the
myCigna® app or website. You’ll find the Continuity of Care brochure and
application there:
1. Go to Cigna.com.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on Find a Form.
3. Select Medical Forms, and then choose For California – specific
forms and plan information, visit our Cigna Healthcare in
California page.
4. Scroll down to Transition of Care and Continuity of Care and select
the Continuity of Care Brochure in the second paragraph.
If you call us, please let the Customer Service Advocate know you’re in the middle
of treatment. They’ll work with you to determine your eligibility for Continuity of
Care. They can also help you complete the request form.
When filling out the Transition of Care/Continuity of Care Form or speaking to a
representative please provide as much information as possible regarding your
request, including the doctor or facility with whom you want to continue your care
and the medical treatment you are receiving.
Once you submit the request form, Cigna Healthcare will send you a letter with our
decision. If you have any questions, we’re happy to help. Please call us at the
number on your Cigna ID card. Customer Service Advocates are available 24/7.
If your health care professional is also no longer in your Cigna Healthcare plan’s
network as a result of this termination, he or she can submit a request to Cigna
Healthcare to continue coverage of your care at the in-network rate.
To qualify for Continuity of Care, your individual provider(s) must agree to:
• continue to accept reimbursement from Cigna Healthcare at the rates we
agreed to before the transitional period as payment in full;
• follow the Cigna Healthcare quality assurance requirements and provide
Cigna Healthcare with necessary medical information related to your care;
and
• follow the Cigna Healthcare policies and procedures, including but not limited
to, referrals, pre-authorizations and treatment plans approved by
CignaHealthcare.
Date
<FRST_NM> <LAST_NM>
<ADDR>
<CITY_NM>, <ST_CD> <ZIP_CD>
Your health care provider may go out-of-network.
Here’s what you need to know, and how we can help.
Dear <FRST_NM> <LAST_NM>,
UCSD Medical Group is currently part of your Cigna Healthcare plan network. We want you
to know, however, that starting July 1, 2026, this provider may leave the network. If that
happens, the provider group would no longer be in-network, and you may pay more to get
care from this provider.
What if your provider does go out-of-network?
If your medical group leaves your health plan network, they will no longer have a contract with
your health plan. This means you'll likely pay more for the same services. For example, you
would have to pay 100% of the cost (if your plan doesn't have an out-of-network benefit).
• If you are enrolled in a Point of Service plan, refer to your out-of-network
certificate for benefit plan information regarding out-of-network coverage.
What you need to know
You will soon receive a new ID card. It will have the name, address and telephone number of
the new provider group and physician information.
If your provider does leave, you may want to find a new in-network provider before July 1,
2026, and we’re happy to help you do that. You can call us anytime at 1.800.244.6224. Our
Customer Service Advocates are available 24/7/365, and can help you find an in-network
provider in your area. We can help with transitioning other parts of your care, including new
referrals, prescriptions, and Continuity of Care eligibility.
CA Required Notice: If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may
have a right to keep your provider for a designated time period. Please contact the Cigna
Healthcare customer service department, and if you have further questions, you are
encouraged to contact the Department of Managed Health Care, which protects consumers, by
telephone at its toll-free number, 1-888-466-2219, or at a TDD number for the hearing and
speech impaired at 1-877-688-9891, or online at www.dmhc.ca.gov.
All Cigna Healthcare products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.
Hub Cat #965398 10/25 © 2025 Cigna.
Confidential, unpublished property of The Cigna Group. Do not duplicate or distribute. Use and distribution limited solely to
authorized personnel. © 2026 The Cigna Group
You may be eligible to continue receiving treatment from your provider for a specified period of
time. This is called Continuity of Care. It’s available for certain medical situations. These
include upcoming surgery, treatment of a serious chronic or acute condition, terminal illness,
care of a newborn child between birth and age 36 months, care during pregnancy, maternal
mental health, or any other procedure that is authorized by the plan as part of a documented
course of treatment.
You’ll find a Continuity of Care brochure and application form online at Cigna.com.
1. Go to Cigna.com.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on Find a Form.
3. Select Medical Forms, and then choose For California – specific forms and plan
information, visit our Cigna Healthcare in California page.
4. Scroll down to Transition of Care and Continuity of Care and select the
Continuity of Care Brochure in the second paragraph.
We encourage you to apply for Continuity of Care as soon as possible, ideally within 30 days
of receipt of this letter.
If you do not wish to apply for Continuity of Care to see this terminated provider, you can
locate a new provider through the provider directory: www.cigna.com/hcpdirectory.
Call us anytime at 800.Cigna24 (800.244.6224)
If you have any questions or concerns, we’re here to help, 24/7/365. For TRS or TTY
services, dial 711 when you call.
Para información en Español, por favor llame al numero telefónico que aparece en su tarjeta o
al 1.800.244.6224 (Customer Service) y pida hablar con un representante que hable Español.
Sincerely,
Cigna Healthcare
(over)
Frequently asked questions
What if I am receiving ongoing treatment on July 1, 2026 or have been approved
for services that start after July 1, 2026?
You may be eligible for Continuity of Care. This process allows you to continue in-
network coverage for certain medical and behavioral treatment for a defined period of
time after the provider leaves your network, based on your plan benefits, federal law or
state law. To be eligible, you must be receiving a course of ongoing, medically
necessary treatment. Here’s what you need to know:
Qualifying conditions and treatments
Your plan materials include details about the conditions and treatments that qualify for
continuity of care. Depending on your plan benefits, federal law or state laws, such
conditions may include but, are not limited to:
• upcoming surgery,
• treatment of a serious chronic or acute condition,
• terminal illness,
• care of a newborn child between birth and age 36 months,
• care during pregnancy,
• maternal mental health, or
• any other procedure that is authorized by the plan as part of a documented
course of treatment.
To find out more about Continuity of Care, please call us at the toll-free number on the
back of your Cigna Healthcare ID card or [1.800.244.6224], or use the myCigna® app or
website. You’ll find the Continuity of Care brochure and application there:
1. Go to Cigna.com.
2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on Find a Form.
3. Select Medical Forms, and then choose For California – specific forms
and plan information, visit our Cigna Healthcare in California page.
4. Scroll down to Transition of Care and Continuity of Care and select the
Continuity of Care Brochure in the second paragraph.
If you call us, please let the Customer Service Advocate know you’re in the middle of
treatment. They’ll work with you to determine your eligibility for Continuity of Care. They
can also help you complete the request form.
When filling out the Transition of Care/Continuity of Care Form or speaking to a
representative please provide as much information as possible regarding your request,
including the doctor or facility with whom you want to continue your care and the
medical treatment you are receiving.
Once you submit the request form, Cigna Healthcare will send you a letter with our
decision. If you have any questions, we’re happy to help. Please call us at the number
on your Cigna Healthcare ID card. Customer Service Advocates are available 24/7.
If your health care professional is also no longer in your Cigna Healthcare plan’s
network as a result of this termination, he or she can submit a request to Cigna
Healthcare to continue coverage of your care at the in-network rate.
To qualify for Continuity of Care, your individual provider(s) must agree to:
All Cigna Healthcare products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.
Hub Cat #965398 10/25 © 2025 Cigna.
• continue to accept reimbursement from Cigna Healthcare at the rates we agreed
to before the transitional period as payment in full;
• follow Cigna Healthcare quality assurance requirements and provide Cigna
Healthcare with necessary medical information related to your care; and
• follow Cigna Healthcare policies and procedures, including but not limited to,
referrals, pre-authorizations and treatment plans approved by Cigna Healthcare.