DMHC BLOCK TRANSFER HOSPITAL FILING NARRATIVE (UHCCA)
Corona Regional Medical Center
1. eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice template
The Plan confirms it will use the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice
template for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Department’s approval required
The Plan confirms it cannot transition its enrollees or send Enrollee Transfer Notices
without the Department’s approval.
3. Enrollee Notice Mailing Date
The Plan understands that Enrollee Notices are required no later than 5 days post-
termination. The Plan may send enrollee notices as early as 30 days pre-termination,
with DMHC approval, and will notify the DMHC once enrollee notices are sent.
4. Individually contracted or part of one contract
Corona Regional Medical Center is part of one contract for Universal Health Services.
5. Terminating Hospital Services
a. Corona Regional Medical Center does provide tertiary care, quaternary care,
cancer, and/or high-level specialty services.
b. Corona Regional Medical Center does not provide transplant services.
c. Corona Regional Medical Center is not a Center of Excellence for the Plan.
d. Acute Psychiatric, Plastic Surgery and Spine Surgery services are not available
at the alternate hospitals. The Plan confirms that the enrollee’s obligation when
accessing necessary care and services under the LOA will be at their current
(pre-termination) in-network benefit level.
6. High-Level Services
The high-level services that are available at Corona Regional Medical Center are:
Bariatric Surgery, Cancer, Coronary ICU, Neurosurgery, Plastic Surgery, and Spine
Surgery. The Plan confirms that the alternate hospital(s) provide the same high-level
services as follows:
Parkview Community Hospital Medical Center: Bariatric Surgery and Cancer
San Antonio Regional Hospital: Cancer, Coronary ICU, and Neurosurgery
Placentia Linda Hospital: Bariatric Surgery and Coronary ICU
7. Alternate Hospital(s) Confirmation of Capacity
a. The Plan contacted Parkview Community Hospital Medical Center, San Antonio
Regional Hospital, and Placentia Linda regarding the Block Transfer.
b. The Plan confirms no concerns were expressed regarding the capacity to
accommodate enrollees.
8. Term Notice Days
The alternate hospital Placentia Linda Hospital has an agreement that includes a Hard
End Date, not a notice period. In the portal, the Plan has indicated ‘0’ notice days, since
N/A is not an option. The Plan treats hard end date contracts as terminations. Generally,
the Plan and Hospital start negotiations approximately 120 days prior to the term date.
The Plan also evaluates the need for a Block Transfer Filing at that time.
9. Medical group(s) that utilize Corona Regional Medical Center as a primary
admitting facility
a. PrimeCare Medical Group of Chino primarily utilized Corona Regional Medical
Center.
b. The Plan has contacted PrimeCare Medical Group of Chino regarding the Block
Transfer.
c. The Plan confirms no concerns were expressed regarding the block transfer.
d. The Plan confirms the provider groups have the ability to redirect enrollees to
alternate hospitals.
i. There are no specialties where the associated specialist(s) have
admitting privileges only at the terminating hospital and not at alternate
hospital(s).
ii. Enrollees will be admitted to Parkview Community Hospital Medical
Center, San Antonio Regional Hospital and Placentia Linda Hospital via
Regular Admitting Patterns.
10. Medical group(s) that DO NOT utilize Terminating Hospital as a primary admitting
facility
The Plan confirms that the medical groups that do not utilize Corona Regional Medical
Center as primary are able to refer enrollees to the alternate hospitals or their
designated primary hospital for medically necessary services within the Plan’s network
that provides the same high-level services as Corona Regional Medical Center.