Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 18, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children’s Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-293
Filed on March 17, 2026
Dear Mr. Evan Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children’s
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for
the Department’s review to include the following:
a. Statement and/or attachment informing enrollees that they may contact
the Plan for language assistance. This statement must include the contact
information for these services written in the identified top 15 threshold
languages spoken by limited-English-proficient individuals in California as
determined by the DHCS.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 2
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
3. Please confirm whether the Plan has an internal deadline to start the Enrollee
Transfer Notice. If yes, please share that date with the Department.
4. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
5. On the Block Transfer Filing form, in the Filing Info section, the Plan indicated
there were zero (0) bed days utilized and zero (0) admits at the Terminating
Hospital for the most recently completed Calendar Year. However, in the Enrollee
Access section of the Block Transfer Filing form, Plan indicated that LaSalle
Medical Associates has 91,823 assigned enrollees, utilized 79 bed days, and 35
non-ER admits. Please confirm the following:
a. The total number of affected enrollees,
b. The total number of bed days used,
c. The number of non-ER admits,
d. Whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to the
Terminating Hospital
e. If the pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees,
please submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate
to continuity of care and transition of care.
6. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Valley
Children’s Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
7. Please indicate whether the Terminating Hospital is or provides any of the
following:
a. Tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level specialty
services,
b. Transplant services, and if so,
i. What types of transplants,
ii. Whether the contract termination includes the transplant contract,
iii. The termination date of the transplant contract if separate from the
hospital contract.
c. Recognized or designated as a hospital that provides other high-level
specialty services, such as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery,
Blue Distinction Center for Spine Surgery, etc., and if so,
i. Identify the distinguished services.
8. For each service available at the Terminating Hospital from Comment 7.a, 7.b,
and 7.c, please confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 3
9. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The number of PPO members who reside within a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital,
b. Whether all of the Alternate Hospitals are in-network facilities for PPO
members,
c. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all medically
necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
d. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
10. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the provider group has been contacted,
b. Name of contact, phone number, and email address,
c. Whether the provider group expressed concerns,
d. Whether the provider group has routine access to the Terminating
Hospital,
e. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
11. The Plan included Community Regional Medical Center – Fresno as an Alternate
Hospital; however, was not included as an Alternate Hospital for LaSalle Medical
Associates. Please confirm whether Community Regional Medical Center –
Fresno is an Alternate Hospital for MemorialCare Medical Foundation. If yes,
please provide the following:
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 4
a. Number of PCPs and/or Hospitalists who admit to the Alternate Hospital,
b. Number of Specialist who admit to the Alternate Hospital,
c. Date Contract Terminates/Renews,
d. Termination Notice Days,
e. Whether a notice of contract termination is sent or received,
f. Whether there is a potential cost increase for PPO/POS enrollees, and
g. Whether the contract is evergreen and will auto-renew.
12. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
13. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
14. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
c. Any transplant services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
15. In the event of contract termination where the Plan removes the Terminating
Hospital from its contracted provider network, please summarize or confirm the
following that may result:
a. The total number of enrollees, if any, who have a residence or workplace
beyond 30 minutes or 15 miles of a contracting or plan-operated hospital,
b. The number of enrollees from 15.a. within each corresponding zip code,
c. The Plan’s process for ensuring compliance with Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§ 1300.51(d)(H)(ii). (ii) Hospitals. In the case of a full-service plan, all
enrollees have a residence or workplace within 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracting or plan-operated hospital which has a capacity to serve the
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 5
entire dependent enrollee population based on normal utilization, and, if
separate from such hospital, a contracting or plan-operated provider of all
emergency health care services
16. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
17. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
18. Please indicate whether a continuity of care and/or completion of covered
services agreement exists between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital. If no
agreement exists, please provide an update on the progress, if any, of reaching
an agreement.
19. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 25, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring