Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 18, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children’s Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-293
Filed on March 17, 2026
Dear Mr. Evan Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children’s
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for
the Department’s review to include the following:
a. Statement and/or attachment informing enrollees that they may contact
the Plan for language assistance. This statement must include the contact
information for these services written in the identified top 15 threshold
languages spoken by limited-English-proficient individuals in California as
determined by the DHCS.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 2
Plan Response: Please see the attached Babel sheet that is included with
the Enrollee Transfer Notice.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval
3. Please confirm whether the Plan has an internal deadline to start the Enrollee
Transfer Notice. If yes, please share that date with the Department.
Plan Response: No internal deadline for Enrollee Transfer Notices related to
Hospital terminations.
4. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Plan Response: The hospital is not part of a health system termination.
5. On the Block Transfer Filing form, in the Filing Info section, the Plan indicated
there were zero (0) bed days utilized and zero (0) admits at the Terminating
Hospital for the most recently completed Calendar Year. However, in the Enrollee
Access section of the Block Transfer Filing form, Plan indicated that LaSalle
Medical Associates has 91,823 assigned enrollees, utilized 79 bed days, and 35
non-ER admits. Please confirm the following:
a. The total number of affected enrollees, In progress
b. The total number of bed days used, In progress
c. The number of non-ER admits, In progress
d. Whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to the
Terminating Hospital LaSalle Medical Associates is being evaluated to
confirm whether it has routine access to Valley Children’s Hospital.
e. If the pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees,
please submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate
to continuity of care and transition of care.
Plan Response: The Plan will submit the relevant provider contract
provisions related to continuity of care and transition of care
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 3
6. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Valley
Children’s Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees no impact
7. Please indicate whether the Terminating Hospital is or provides any of the
following:
a. Tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level specialty
services, Yes. Valley Children’s Hospital provides high-level pediatric
specialty services, including Level IV NICU/Regional NICU services, PICU
services, Level II Pediatric Trauma services, and pediatric cancer
services.
b. Transplant services, and if so,
i. What types of transplants bone marrow/stem cell
ii. Whether the contract termination includes the transplant contract,
No
iii. The termination date of the transplant contract if separate from the
hospital contract. Not applicable
c. Recognized or designated as a hospital that provides other high-level
specialty services, such as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery,
Blue Distinction Center for Spine Surgery, etc., and if so, Yes. Valley
Children’s Hospital is recognized for high-level pediatric specialty services.
i. Identify the distinguished services. Distinguished services include
neonatal intensive care (Level IV NICU), pediatric trauma, pediatric
epilepsy, extracorporeal life support (ECMO), pediatric inpatient
rehabilitation, cleft/craniofacial services, and antimicrobial
stewardship.
8. For each service available at the Terminating Hospital from Comment 7.a, 7.b,
and 7.c, please confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
Plan Response: The Plan has evaluated the services identified in Question 7 and
confirms that alternate in-network hospitals in the Central Valley provide general
acute care and limited pediatric services; however, they do not provide equivalent
pediatric tertiary and quaternary services at the same scope or designation as
Valley Children’s Hospital.Specifically:Level IV NICU/Regional NICU, PICU,
pediatric trauma, ECMO, pediatric cancer (comprehensive), and advanced
pediatric subspecialty services: Not available at equivalent level at alternate
hospitals. Bone marrow/stem cell transplant (pediatric): Not available at identified
alternate in-network hospitals. Other recognized specialty services (e.g., pediatric
epilepsy, pediatric rehabilitation, cleft/craniofacial, antimicrobial stewardship): Not
available at equivalent pediatric specialty level at alternate hospitals. While
certain alternate hospitals (e.g., Community Medical Centers, Saint Agnes
Medical Center, Adventist Health facilities) may provide limited or general
versions of some services, they do not offer the same pediatric-focused scope,
capacity, or designations as Valley Children’s Hospital
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 4
9. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following: Not applicable
a. The number of PPO members who reside within a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital,
b. Whether all of the Alternate Hospitals are in-network facilities for PPO
members,
c. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all medically
necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
d. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
Plan Response: The Plan is in the process of conducting outreach to affected
provider groups that primarily utilize Valley Children’s Hospital; documentation of
contacts (including names, phone numbers, and email addresses) is pending
completion and will be provided upon request.
To date, Anthem is assessing provider group feedback, including any expressed
concerns, and evaluating the extent to which provider groups have routine access to
Valley Children’s Hospital.
Anthem has preliminarily confirmed that affected provider groups have the ability to
redirect enrollees to alternate in-network hospitals for routine inpatient and
emergency services, primarily through existing admitting privileges and/or hospitalist
coverage arrangements.
10.
a. Whether the provider group has been contacted,
b. Name of contact, phone number, and email address,
c. Whether the provider group expressed concerns,
d. Whether the provider group has routine access to the Terminating
Hospital,
e. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals, The Plan is
evaluating whether any specialties rely exclusively on admitting
privileges at Valley Children’s Hospital; this analysis is pending. To
the extent such specialties are identified, Anthem will ensure
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 5
access through continuity of care, out-of-network authorization,
and/or single-case agreements
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.). Plan Response: Where provider groups
do not maintain direct admitting privileges at alternate hospitals,
admissions will occur through established hospitalist coverage or
Plan-directed admission processes. Identification of specific
hospitalist groups, staffing levels, and capabilities is pending
validation; however, Anthem expects that hospitalist arrangements
will support admission for medically necessary services in
accordance with Medi-Cal requirements.
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
11. The Plan included Community Regional Medical Center – Fresno as an Alternate
Hospital; however, was not included as an Alternate Hospital for LaSalle Medical
Associates. Please confirm whether Community Regional Medical Center –
Fresno is an Alternate Hospital for MemorialCare Medical Foundation. If yes,
please provide the following: The Plan confirms CRMC is not an alternate hospital
for MemorialCare
a. Number of PCPs and/or Hospitalists who admit to the Alternate Hospital,
b. Number of Specialist who admit to the Alternate Hospital,
c. Date Contract Terminates/Renews,
d. Termination Notice Days,
e. Whether a notice of contract termination is sent or received,
f. Whether there is a potential cost increase for PPO/POS enrollees, and
g. Whether the contract is evergreen and will auto-renew.
12. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer, Termination
is for 7/1/26- communications with alternate hospitals scheduled for 5/1/26
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer, None to date
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 6
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.No
13. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate. The Plan confirms that HMO providers
in the Central Valley have adequate admitting privileges and/or hospitalist
coverage arrangements at contracted alternate hospitals for routine inpatient and
emergency services, consistent with Medi-Cal network adequacy requirements.
However, Anthem does not have an alternate in-network hospital in the region
that provides the full scope of pediatric tertiary and quaternary services currently
furnished by Valley Children’s Hospital Accordingly, admitting privileges are
adequate for general services, but not for all specialized pediatric services that
would be lost. Anthem will ensure access to those services through continuity of
care, out-of-network authorization, and/or single-case agreements, in compliance
with California Medi-Cal requirements.
14. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals: Valley Children’s Hospital
provides a range of pediatric-specific inpatient and outpatient services that
are not available, or not available at equivalent scope or designation, at the
identified alternate in-network hospitals in the Central Valley.
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services, Services not fully available at
alternate hospitals include comprehensive pediatric subspecialty care,
including but not limited to pediatric cardiology, neurology,
hematology/oncology, endocrinology, gastroenterology, and other
pediatric specialty clinics and coordinated outpatient programs, as well as
associated inpatient pediatric specialty care
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services, Services not available at equivalent level include Level
IV NICU (regional neonatal intensive care), pediatric intensive care
(PICU), pediatric trauma services, extracorporeal life support
(ECMO), advanced pediatric epilepsy services, and other pediatric
tertiary/quaternary specialty services. Alternate hospitals in the region
do not maintain equivalent pediatric designations or capabilities.
c. Any transplant services. Valley Children’s Hospital offers pediatric bone
marrow/stem cell transplant and advanced cell therapy services,
which are not available at the identified alternate in-network hospitals in
the region. Accordingly, while alternate hospitals provide general acute
care services, they do not provide equivalent pediatric specialty,
tertiary, or transplant services, and Anthem Blue Cross Medi-Cal will
ensure access to such services through continuity of care, out-of-network
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 7
authorization, and/or single-case agreements, consistent with California
Medi-Cal requirements.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination. For
services that are not available at the identified alternate in-network hospitals—
specifically pediatric tertiary and quaternary services such as Level IV NICU,
PICU, pediatric trauma, ECMO, comprehensive pediatric subspecialty care, and
pediatric bone marrow/stem cell transplant—Anthem Blue Cross Medi-Cal will
ensure continued access through the following mechanisms:
Continuity of Care: Members currently receiving treatment at Valley Children’s
Hospital may continue to receive services there for a period of time, as required
under California Medi-Cal continuity-of-care provisions, when medically appropriate.
Out-of-Network Authorization: Anthem will authorize medically necessary services
at Valley Children’s Hospital or another qualified pediatric specialty facility when
equivalent services are not available within the contracted network.
Single-Case Agreements (SCAs): Where appropriate, Anthem may enter into
single-case agreements with Valley Children’s Hospital or other qualified providers
to ensure access to required services.
Referral to Qualified Regional Centers: If needed, members may be referred to
other contracted or approved pediatric tertiary/quaternary facilities within California
capable of providing the required level of care.
These approaches ensure that affected enrollees continue to receive medically
necessary services in a timely manner and in compliance with California Medi-Cal
managed care requirements, including network adequacy and access-to-care
standards.
15. In the event of contract termination where the Plan removes the Terminating
Hospital from its contracted provider network, please summarize or confirm the
following that may result: As the anticipated contract termination is not effective
until July 1, 2026, Anthem Blue Cross Medi-Cal has not yet finalized the post-
termination time and distance analysis.
a. The total number of enrollees, if any, who have a residence or workplace
beyond 30 minutes or 15 miles of a contracting or plan-operated hospital,
The number of enrollees who may reside or work beyond 30 minutes or 15
miles of a contracted hospital is pending validation closer to the
termination date.
b. The number of enrollees from 15.a. within each corresponding zip code,
ZIP code-level impacts are likewise pending completion of that analysis.
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 8
c. The Plan’s process for ensuring compliance with Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§ 1300.51(d)(H)(ii). (ii) Hospitals. In the case of a full-service plan, all
enrollees have a residence or workplace within 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracting or plan-operated hospital which has a capacity to serve the
entire dependent enrollee population based on normal utilization, and, if
separate from such hospital, a contracting or plan-operated provider of all
emergency health care services The Plan will ensure compliance with Cal.
Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1300.51(d)(H)(ii) by conducting an updated geo-
access analysis prior to the effective date and implementing any
necessary mitigation strategies (e.g., network adjustments or out-of-
network arrangements) to maintain required access standards.
16. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
The Plan confirms that contracted medical groups in the Central Valley that do
not utilize Valley Children’s Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted
enrollees there, are able to refer members to other contracted in-network
hospitals for routine inpatient, emergency, and general acute care services,
consistent with Medi-Cal managed care requirements. However, comparable in-
network services are not fully available for certain pediatric tertiary and
quaternary services provided by Valley Children’s Hospital; accordingly, Anthem
will ensure access to those services through continuity of care, out-of-network
authorization, and/or single-case agreements with Valley Children’s Hospital or
other qualified pediatric specialty providers, as medically necessary and in
compliance with California Medi-Cal requirements.
17. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination. As of this
filing, The Plan is actively validating the number of enrollees who have
procedures that are both authorized and scheduled at Valley Children’s Hospital
for dates following the anticipated contract termination. Anthem will provide this
information to DMHC upon completion of its review. In the interim, Anthem will
ensure that any identified enrollees are able to proceed with their scheduled
procedures without disruption through continuity of care and/or completion of
covered services, or, if necessary, through out-of-network authorization or single-
case agreements, in accordance with California Medi-Cal managed care
requirements.
18. Please indicate whether a continuity of care and/or completion of covered
services agreement exists between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital. If no
agreement exists, please provide an update on the progress, if any, of reaching
an agreement. As of this filing, the Plan does not have a separate, executed
continuity of care or completion of covered services agreement with Valley
Children’s Hospital specific to the contract termination.
Blue Cross of California March 18, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 9
19. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing. The Plan confirms that, as of this filing, the provider group(s)
included in this Block Transfer Filing are not subject to known or anticipated
contract terminations within the next six months.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 25, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring