Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 24, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Lea Anna Tonkin
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc.
400 N. Brand Blvd. Suite 400
Glendale, CA 91203
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Community Health Partners
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-107
Filed on March 24, 2026
Dear Ms. Tonkin:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of
California, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health
Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.)
and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Community Health
Partners (Terminating Provider Group) from the Plan’s provider network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Provider Group and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm whether the provider group termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is
a stand-alone contract.
2. Please confirm the Contract Termination date and the Enrollee Transition date
for this Filing.
3. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and
Community Health Partners impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 24, 2026
Community Health Partners; 2026-HOSP-107 Page 2
4. Please confirm whether the Receiving Provider Group(s) have admitting
privileges to an in-network hospital.
5. Please provide the following for each proposed Receiving Provider Group:
a. Contract termination date,
b. In the case of an evergreen contract with any proposed Receiving
Provider Group, please provide the Department with:
i. Contract renewal date(s), or
ii. If there is no specified renewal date(s), please state whether a
notice of termination has been sent or received, and
iii. Confirm whether each evergreen contract will automatically renew.
6. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s specialist network, please
provide or confirm:
a. Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the
full scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its
enrollees,
b. Any specialties available within the Terminating Provider Group that would
not be available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any specialties no longer available to affected enrollees as a
result of the proposed transition, please explain how those
enrollees will continue to access such specialty services,
c. The name and contact information for each Receiving Provider Group
responding to this issue.
7. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s hospital network, please
provide or confirm:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from any of the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals, and if so,
whether that contract is set to terminate within the next six months,
b. Any inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to affected
enrollees through the Terminating Provider Group that would not be
available through any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected
enrollees as a result of the proposed transition, please explain how
enrollees will continue to access such services.
8. To assess continuity of care for enrollees affected by the Block Transfer, please
identify or confirm:
a. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved
to receive a procedure or service from a provider within the Terminating
Provider Group within 180 days of the Termination Date,
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 24, 2026
Community Health Partners; 2026-HOSP-107 Page 3
b. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved
to receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the Termination Date
from a hospital utilized by the Terminating Provider Group, but not utilized
by the enrollee’s Receiving Provider Group.
9. Please indicate whether the Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan
enrollees assigned to Community Health Partners.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 31, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Regards,
Nune Mikayelyan
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring