Additional Narratives
Terminating Medical Group: UCSD Medical Group
Pending Termination Date: July 1, 2026
- The Plan confirms the following:
(cid:120) This pending termination will affect Point of Service (POS) enrollees;
however, POS members represent only 1% of the total enrolled population.
(cid:120) The receiving provider groups have admitting privileges to in-network
hospitals.
(cid:120) The Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees assigned to
the Terminating Medical Group.
(cid:120) The Plan has neither issued nor received any contract termination notices
to/from the receiving groups that would result in termination within the next six
months.
(cid:120) One of the receiving provider groups (Mercy Physician Medical Group) will
receive 38 enrollees who will travel 28 miles from the current PCP office to
the new PCP office. However, the distance from the residence address to the
new PCP office is less than 28 miles (approximately 17–27 miles) for 13 out
of 38 enrollees. The Plan conducted a comprehensive review of all contracted
PCPs within a 15-mile radius. No providers meeting network participation,
panel availability, and scope-of-practice requirements were available at the
time of reassignment. As the termination date approaches, the Plan will
conduct additional reviews to determine whether more appropriate PCPs
located within the 15-mile radius become available and will reassign members
accordingly.
(cid:120) All services provided by the Terminating Medical Group will be available
through the Receiving Provider Groups at an in-network benefit level
(cid:120) The Plan has not sent or received a notice of contract termination to/from any
of the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals
(cid:120) There are no inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to
affected enrollees through the Terminating Medical Group that would not be
available through any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
(cid:120) Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the full
scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its
enrollees.
(cid:120) There are no specialties available within the Terminating Medical Group that
would not be available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
Page 1 of 2
(cid:120) The Plan confirms that the Terminating Provider Group is delegated for utilization
management for most professional services. Accordingly, the Terminating
Provider Group is responsible for issuing authorizations. As a result, the Plan
does not have direct visibility into the number of affected enrollees who have
been authorized or approved to receive procedures or services from providers
within the terminating provider group within 180 days of the termination date.
However, the Plan has requested this information from the Terminating Provider
Group and is currently awaiting their response.
(cid:120) The Plan confirms that, based on the currently available hospital authorization
report, there are no affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to
receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the termination date at a
hospital utilized by the Terminating Provider Group but not utilized by the
enrollee’s receiving provider group.
- This Medical Group termination is part of a larger system- wide termination
between the Plan and University of California system. However, the agreement
between the Plan and the Terminating provider group is a stand-alone
agreement.
Page 2 of 2