Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 3, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-256
Filed on March 2, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Henry Mayo Newhall
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Plan Response1: The Plan will not transition its enrollees or send Enrollee
Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
2. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 2
Plan Response2: The hospital termination is Not part of a health system
termination.
3. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Henry
Mayo Newhall Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Plan Response3: The contract termination between the Plan and the
Terminating Provider impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
4. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the Block
Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination from
the Alternate Hospitals, and if so, whether that contract is set to terminate
within the next 6 months,
d. Contract termination date,
e. Whether the contract is evergreen and confirm whether each evergreen
contract will automatically renew.
Plan Response4: The Plan outreaches to the hospitals with occupancy
rates at 80% or higher and documented any concerns and capacity
response(s) in the filing portal. For hospitals with occupancy rates <80%,
justification is not provided as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's
capacity to serve additional plan enrollees per §1300.67.1.3(2)(L): “Based
upon the data made public on the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development's website, for each of the proposed Alternate Hospitals,
provide the available bed occupancy rate for the most recently completed
calendar year. If the rate is at 80% or higher, please provide justification as
to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's capacity to serve additional plan
enrollees.” The Plan has not sent or received notice of contract terminations
from the Alternate Hospitals. The contracts are evergreen and will
automatically renew.
5. In the event of contract termination where the Plan removes the Terminating
Hospital from its contracted provider network, please summarize or confirm the
following that may result:
a. The Plan’s process for ensuring compliance with Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§ 1300.51(d)(H)(ii). (ii) Hospitals. In the case of a full-service plan, all
enrollees have a residence or workplace within 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracting or plan-operated hospital which has a capacity to serve the
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 3
entire dependent enrollee population based on normal utilization, and, if
separate from such hospital, a contracting or plan-operated provider of all
emergency health care services.
Plan Response5: Members who reside beyond 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracted or plan-operated hospital will be allowed to access the
terminating/terminated hospital as appropriate, reimbursed at in-network
benefit levels. Members may access emergency services at any hospital,
including the terminating/terminated hospital; coverage is provided
according to each member’s policy benefits.
6. The Plan identifies a total of 2,758 enrollees who will travel beyond 15 miles or
30 minutes from his/her PCP post-termination. For the ZIP codes in the table
below, please confirm whether the Plan has alternative access standards
approved by the Department (including the filing number and approval date).
ZIP Code Number of Enrollees
91354 1,375
93532 1,383
PlanResponse6: The number of enrollees identified a total of 1,383 enrollees
who will travel beyond 15 miles or 30 minutes from his/her PCP post-termination,
as follows (the Plan inadvertently noted the total of 1,383 for 93532 instead of 8):
:
ZIP Code Number of Enrollees
91354 1,375
93532 8
Total 1,383
For only ZIP code 93532, the Plan has alternative access standards approved by
the Department per filing number 20243408 approved on 10/11/2024. The Plan
will submit request for alternate access standards for zip 91354 post termination
per the Department’s instructions.
7. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 4
Plan Response7: The Plan will send Department-approved Enrollee
Transfer Notices to all PPO enrollees residing within a 15-mile radius of
the Terminating Hospital.
8. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
Plan Response8: Provider groups have the full scope of specialty
services required by the Plan’s contract with its enrollees. For
credentialing and contracting purposes, each participating provider
group contracted with the Plan must have a full array of specialists,
including primary and high-volume specialties, available or
accessible to serve our members. The provider groups meet this
requirement by either employing and/or contracting with sub-
specialists when necessary. No primary or sub-specialties were
identified as lacking. If, for some reason, when an In-Network
physician or other health care professional specialty is not available
or accessible to an enrollee, the enrollee may request an Out of
Network referral. Furthermore, providers shall arrange for the
provision of specialty services from specialists outside the pro‐vid‐er’s
contracted network if unavailable within the network, when medically
necessary for the enrollee’s condition. Enrollee costs for medically
necessary referrals for Out-of-Network providers will not exceed In
Network co payments, co insurance, and deductibles.
‐
9. Please confirm whethe‐r the HMO pro‐viders that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 5
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
Plan Response9: HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital
have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least one of
the identified Alternate Hospital containing all services.
10. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Plan Response10: The provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are not
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months.
11. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response11: The medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating
Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently
completed calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within
the Plan’s network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating
Hospital.
12. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response12: To date, 23 enrollees have an authorized scheduled
procedure within 180 days of the contract termination date.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 10, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Blue Cross of California March 3, 2026
Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital; 2026-HOSP-256 Page 6
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring