Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
May 29, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc.
21215 Burbank Boulevard
Woodland Hills, CA 91367
Re: Approval
Proposed Contract Termination with O'Connor Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-89
Filed on March 16, 2026
Dear Mr. Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) has reviewed the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
Partnership Plan, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene
Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340
et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000
et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove O'Connor Hospital
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently July 1, 2026.
The Plan proposes to redirect affected enrollees to the following Alternate Hospitals:
• El Camino Health
• El Camino Hospital Los Gatos
• Good Samaritan Hospital-San Jose
• Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford
Based on the Plan’s representations and information provided through the review
process, the Department hereby approves the Plan’s Filing, subject to the following:
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. May 29, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 2
1. No later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the Plan shall
provide written notice to each enrollee who has an upcoming procedure
authorized or scheduled at the Terminating Hospital within the next six
months, as well as those who had accessed the Terminating Hospital at
least once during the past year, subject to any waivers granted by the
Department.
For Medi-Cal HMO enrollees, this notice requirement shall be in addition to any
other timely notice requirements imposed by the Department of Health Care
Services (DHCS). Please check with DHCS to determine any additional notice
requirements.
2. The Plan shall ensure the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating
Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently
completed calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within
the Plan’s network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating
Hospital.
3. The Plan shall ensure, with respect to enrollees who are approved to receive
Completion of Covered Services from the Terminating Hospital, that the copay,
deductible, percentage coinsurance or any other cost sharing component for
such care is no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would have
had if he or she received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior to the
Termination Date. (See Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1373.96.).
4. If, after the above enrollee transfer notices are sent, the Plan reaches an
agreement with the Terminating Hospital, the Plan must promptly inform the
Department and convey an additional enrollee notification to each affected
enrollee in accordance with the requirements set forth in Cal. Code Regs., Tit.
28, § 1300.67.1.3(f).
5. In the event that the effective date of removal of the Terminating Hospital from
the Plan’s network is delayed by 90 or more days, this approval shall no longer
be effective, unless the Plan requests an extension of this Approval and the
Department grants the Plan’s request.
6. If the Plan determines that information submitted in this Filing is materially
incorrect, it will promptly notify the Department. The Plan must also promptly
notify the Department of any changed circumstances or new information that is
material to this Filing.
7. The Department reserves the right to revoke, modify or terminate this approval at
any time based upon changed circumstances or new information that is material
to the filing, or for non-compliance by the Plan with any of the Conditions listed
above. The issuance of this decision by the Department is not, nor should it be
considered to represent, an express or implied approval of an Alternative Access
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. May 29, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 3
standard (with respect to either hospital access or primary care provider access)
for any ZIP code located within the Plan’s approved service area.
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring