Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc.
21215 Burbank Boulevard
Woodland Hills, CA 91367
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with O'Connor Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-89
Filed on March 16, 2026
Dear Mr. Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
Partnership Plan, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene
Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340
et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000
et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove O'Connor Hospital
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for
the Department’s review to include the following: Please see the attached babel
sheet that is included with the Enrollee Transfer Notice
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 2
a. Statement and/or attachment informing enrollees that they may contact
the Plan for language assistance. This statement must include the contact
information for these services written in the identified top 15 threshold
languages spoken by limited-English-proficient individuals in California as
determined by the DHCS.
2. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing. The Plan confirms it will
utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice templates.
3. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval. The Plan
acknowledges that enrollee transitions and issuance of ETNs will not occur prior to
Department approval.
4. The Plan indicated on the Block Transfer Filing Form that the hospital termination
is part of the Santa Clara Valley Healthcare System termination. Please confirm if
the contract is a stand-alone contract. The agreement with O’Connor Hospital is
part of the broader Santa Clara Valley Healthcare System arrangement and is not
a stand-alone contract.
5. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and the
Terminating Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees. The termination
does not impact Point of Service (POS) enrollees
6. Please indicate whether the Terminating Hospital is or provides any of the
following: O’Connor Hospital provides certain high-level services, including burn
care.
a. Tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level specialty
services,
b. Transplant services, and if so, No transplant services are included under
this contract.
i. What types of transplants,
ii. Whether the contract termination includes the transplant contract,
iii. The termination date of the transplant contract if separate from the
hospital contract.
c. Recognized or designated as a hospital that provides other high-level
specialty services, such as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery,
Blue Distinction Center for Spine Surgery, etc., and if so, The hospital is
not designated as a Center of Excellence or Blue Distinction Center for
transplant or other specialty programs under this agreement.
i. Identify the distinguished services.
7. According to HCAi data, the Terminating Hospital offers Burn services. Please
explain where the enrollees can receive this service post-termination. Post-
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 3
termination, enrollees requiring burn services will be redirected to contracted
facilities within the Anthem Medi-Cal network that provide equivalent burn care
services, ensuring continued access within regulatory time and distance
standards.
8. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals: Provider groups will redirect enrollees to alternate contracted
hospitals where admitting privileges are established.
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals, No specialties
are exclusively limited to O’Connor Hospital.
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.). Where admitting privileges are not
present, hospitalist programs at alternate hospitals will facilitate
admissions for medically necessary services.
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
9. In the Block Transfer Filing form, the Plan indicates zero bed days utilized and
zero admissions within the last calendar year. However, in the Enrollee Access
section, the Plan indicates that the Directly Contracted Network utilized 141 bed
days across 27 admissions. Please reconcile this discrepancy and confirm the
correct number of bed days and admissions. The Plan will correct and confirm that
utilization associated specifically with the terminating hospital is minimal and
accurately reflected in the revised filing
10. The Department notes that the Plan has chosen Directly Contracted Network
(DCN) as a group that admits to the Terminating Hospital, for the Enrollee Access
section of the Block Transfer Filing Form. Please state whether DCN is impacted
by the pending termination or if DCN was selected because a provider group must
be chosen for Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer Filing Form. DCN was
selected for filing completeness
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 4
11. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals: All core inpatient and
outpatient services available at O’Connor Hospital are accessible through
alternate contracted hospitals. Any limited services (e.g., burn care) will be
provided at designated in-network facilities.
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
c. Any transplant services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
12. Are there enrollees who have a residence or workplace within 15 miles or 30
minutes of a contracted hospital prior to termination, but would have a residence
or workplace beyond 15 miles or 30 minutes of a contracted hospital post-
termination? The Plan confirms continued compliance with time and distance
standards post-termination. No enrollees will lose required geographic access to
contracted hospitals.
13. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination At this time,
there are no known enrollees with authorized procedures scheduled at O’Connor
Hospital beyond the termination date. Any identified cases will be managed
under continuity of care provisions..
14. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing. The provider groups included in this filing are not currently
subject to additional terminations within the next six months, and no related
Block Transfer Filings are pending.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
O'Connor Hospital; 2026-HOSP-89 Page 5
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring