Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
April 30, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Amended Approval
Proposed Contract Termination with Kern Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-283
Filed on March 26 2026
Dear Ms. Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) has reviewed the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Kern Medical Center
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently April 25, 2026.
The Plan proposes to redirect affected enrollees to the following Alternate Hospitals:
• Adventist Health Bakersfield
• Adventist Health Specialty Bakersfield
• Bakersfield Memorial Hospital
• Good Samaritan Hospital-Bakersfield
• Mercy Hospital - Bakersfield
• Mercy Southwest Hospital
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California April 30, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 2
Based on the Plan’s representations and information provided through the review
process, the Department hereby approves the Plan’s Filing, subject to the following:
1. The Plan has indicated that if medically necessary Trauma-center-level follow-up
service is not available in-network or cannot be scheduled timely within a
reasonable geographic distance, the Plan will authorize the member to receive
services out of network, with claims processed at in-network benefit levels.
Trauma-center-level follow-up services will be provided at an adult trauma-
designated facility when medically necessary. The Plan shall facilitate access to
the nearest adult trauma-designated facility, including authorizing care even
when the facility is outside the 15/30 standard, with claims processed at the in-
network benefit levels.
2. No later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the Plan shall
provide written notice to each enrollee who has an upcoming procedure
authorized or scheduled at the Terminating Hospital within the next six
months, as well as those who had accessed the Terminating Hospital at
least once during the past year, subject to any waivers granted by the
Department.
In addition, no later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the
Plan shall provide written notice to all PPO enrollees living within 15 miles of the
terminating hospital. The Plan may send this notice electronically if enrollees
elect to receive electronic notification.
3. The Plan shall ensure the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating
Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently
completed calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within
the Plan’s network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating
Hospital.
4. The Plan shall ensure, with respect to enrollees who are approved to receive
Completion of Covered Services from the Terminating Hospital, that the copay,
deductible, percentage coinsurance or any other cost sharing component for
such care is no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would have
had if he or she received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior to the
Termination Date. (See Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1373.96.).
5. If, after the above enrollee transfer notices are sent, the Plan reaches an
agreement with the Terminating Hospital, the Plan must promptly inform the
Department and convey an additional enrollee notification to each affected
enrollee in accordance with the requirements set forth in Cal. Code Regs., Tit.
28, § 1300.67.1.3(f).
6. In the event that the effective date of removal of the Terminating Hospital from
the Plan’s network is delayed by 90 or more days, this approval shall no longer
Blue Cross of California April 30, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 3
be effective, unless the Plan requests an extension of this Approval and the
Department grants the Plan’s request.
7. If the Plan determines that information submitted in this Filing is materially
incorrect, it will promptly notify the Department. The Plan must also promptly
notify the Department of any changed circumstances or new information that is
material to this Filing.
8. The Department reserves the right to revoke, modify or terminate this approval at
any time based upon changed circumstances or new information that is material
to the filing, or for non-compliance by the Plan with any of the Conditions listed
above. The issuance of this decision by the Department is not, nor should it be
considered to represent, an express or implied approval of an Alternative Access
standard (with respect to either hospital access or primary care provider access)
for any ZIP code located within the Plan’s approved service area.
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring