
(include new termination date), or not contracted.
Thank you!
Stacie Litovchenko
Approval Attached: Apr 30 2026 2:38PM
To karen.choate@anthem.com
Cc BKim@dmhc.ca.gov; SLitovchenko@dmhc.ca.gov
By Karen Choate Hi Stacie -If the contract terminates, the Plan will facilitate medically
Date 4/23/2026 5:28:01 PM necessary follow up care related to trauma injury requests through its
existing utilization/case management processes. This includes assistance
with authorization and care coordination, as needed. Given that most
trauma-related follow up care would not require treatment at a Level II
trauma center, but can be provided by specialty physicians and in outpatient
settings (e.g., orthopedic follow-up, imaging, wound care, rehabilitation),
the Plan will authorize medically necessary follow up services at the nearest
available in-network provider/facility (including the Plan’s identified
alternates). If medically necessary follow up service is not available in-
network or cannot be scheduled timely within a reasonable geographic
distance, the Plan will authorize the member to receive services out of
network, with claims processed at in-network benefit levels. Trauma-center-
level follow-up services will be provided at an adult trauma-designated
facility when medically necessary. Since there are few adult trauma-
designated hospitals and these may be beyond 15-time/30-distance
standards, the Plan will facilitate access to the nearest adult trauma-
designated facility, including authorizing care even when the facility is
outside the 15/30 standard, with claims processed at the in-network benefit
levels. Thx Karen
To Not Available
Cc Not Available
By Stacie Litovchenko
Date 4/22/2026 11:41:22 AM Hello Ms. Choate,
The Department acknowledges the Plan’s position regarding EMS/911
routing for Trauma Level II cases. To better understand how enrollees’ needs
will be addressed following the Termination Date, please clarify how the Plan
will facilitate referrals for medically necessary follow-up care related to
Trauma Level II injuries, and identify the Alternate Hospital(s) that will
provide comparable services within a reasonable geographic distance and
timeframe. Based on this information, the Department will consider whether
any modifications to the Approval with Conditions are appropriate.
Thank you so much!
Stacie Litovchenko
To karen.choate@anthem.com
Cc BKim@dmhc.ca.gov; SLitovchenko@dmhc.ca.gov
By Karen Choate Hi Stacie - The provider contract was extended through May 8. Regarding
Date 4/17/2026 5:43:11 PM the decision letter, Item 1a: "1. If the contract terminates, the Plan will allow
its contracted providers and provider groups to continue referring services to
the Terminating Hospital after the Termination Date, and to continue to allow
all affected enrollees to receive at the Terminating Hospital after the
Termination Date: a. any medically necessary services available at the
Terminating Hospital, but not available or cannot be scheduled in a timely
manner consistent with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or
other in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance, including, but not limited to, Trauma Level II or..." The Plan
respectfully disagrees that Trauma Level II can be addressed through the
post-termination referral approach or ‘redirected’ to the Terminating Hospital
as described in item 1(a). For EMS/911-routed trauma cases, destination is
determined by EMS routing protocols and clinical necessity—not by member
choice or provider referral patterns. Please refer to Plan's response to the
Department's Comment Letter, #10. Thank you Karen
To Not Available
Cc Not Available
By Stacie Litovchenko
Date 4/17/2026 4:01:36 PM Dear Ms. Choate:
Please find attached an Approval with Conditions in regards to Block Transfer
Filing 2026-HOSP-283 ("Filing").
Within one business day after the release of enrollee notices, please notify
the Department.
Within one business day after the Termination date (as reflected in the
Filing), please advise the Department of the contracting status: agreement
reached, extension (include new termination date), or not contracted.
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Thank you,
Stacie Litovchenko
Office of Plan Monitoring
Approval with Conditions Attached: Apr 17 2026 4:01PM
To karen.choate@anthem.com
Cc BKim@dmhc.ca.gov; SLitovchenko@dmhc.ca.gov
By Karen Choate Hi Stacie - Please refer to the Plan's response letter attached. Thx Karen
Date 4/3/2026 5:28:15 PM
Response to Comment Letter Attached: Apr 3 2026 5:27PM
To Not Available
Cc Not Available
By Stacie Litovchenko A response to this communication is due by 4/3/2026
Date 3/27/2026 11:16:20 AM
Dear Ms. Choate,
Please see the attached comment letter and let me know if you have any
questions.
Thank you!
Stacie Litovchenko
Office of Plan Monitoring
