Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 27, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Kern Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-283
Filed on March 26 2026
Dear Ms. Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Kern Medical Center
(Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of contract
termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is
currently April 25, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. The Enrollee Transfer Notice (ETN) is missing from the Block Transfer
submission. Please provide the ETN for Department review.
Plan Response1: The Plan apologizes for the oversight. Please refer to letter
attached below:
Kern%20Medical%20
Center%20Post%20Te
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 27, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 2
2. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
Plan Response2: The Plan will not transition its enrollees or send Enrollee
Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
3. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Plan Response3: The Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling
Enrollee Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
4. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Plan Response4: The hospital is NOT part of a health system termination.
5. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and the
Terminating Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Plan Response5: The contract termination between the Plan and the
Terminating Provider impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
6. The Plan indicates that there are zero HMO enrollees impacted. However, the
Plan also reports 10 HMO bed days across 4 admissions. Please clarify how
HMO bed days and admissions are reported when there are no impacted
enrollees.
Plan Response6: Impacted HMO enrollees are those assigned to a provider
group that primarily admits to the Terminating Hospital (or that meets the Plan’s
high-admitter threshold of ≥30 admissions in the most recent completed calendar
year). No provider groups met these criteria for the Terminating Hospital;
therefore, 0 impacted HMO enrollees are reported. By contrast, non-ER HMO
admissions and bed days reflect total inpatient utilization at the Terminating
Hospital during the most recent completed calendar year (2025), regardless of
whether the enrollee’s assigned provider group primarily admits to that hospital.
Accordingly, the reported 4 admissions totaling 10 bed days reflect utilization by
enrollees assigned to provider groups that do not primarily admit to the
Terminating Hospital and did not meet the high-admitter threshold.
7. Please confirm if the Terminating Hospital is or provides any of the following:
a. Tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level specialty
services,
b. Transplant services, and if so,
Blue Cross of California March 27, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 3
i. What types of transplants,
ii. Whether the contract termination includes the transplant contract,
iii. The termination date of the transplant contract if separate from the
hospital contract.
c. Recognized or designated as a hospital that provides other high-level
specialty services, such as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery,
Blue Distinction Center for Spine Surgery, etc., and if so,
i. Identify the distinguished services.
Plan Response7: The Terminating Hospital is designated Trauma Level
II.
8. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15-mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
Plan Response8: The Plan will send Department-approved Enrollee
Transfer Notices to all PPO enrollees residing within a 15-mile radius of
the Terminating Hospital.
9. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer
Plan Response9: The Plan outreaches to the hospitals with occupancy
rates at 80% or higher and documented any concerns and capacity
response(s) in the filing portal. For hospitals with occupancy rates <80%,
justification is not provided as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's
capacity to serve additional plan enrollees per §1300.67.1.3(2)(L): “Based
upon the data made public on the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development's website, for each of the proposed Alternate Hospitals,
provide the available bed occupancy rate for the most recently completed
calendar year. If the rate is at 80% or higher, please provide justification
as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's capacity to serve additional
plan enrollees.” All alternate hospitals are <80% capacity.
10. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
Blue Cross of California March 27, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 4
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
c. Any transplant services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Plan Response10: The Plan does not anticipate any issues with the alternate
hospitals’ ability to provide the same outpatient and/or inpatient services
available at the Terminating Hospital. The primary distinction is that the
Terminating Hospital is designated as a Level II Trauma provider, while the
Alternate Hospitals are not. Trauma services constitute Emergency Services.
EMS/911-routed adult trauma care, are processed at the in-network benefit level
regardless of the contracted status of the receiving facility (including the
Terminating Hospital post termination) as members do not select the destination
and EMS transports to the nearest appropriate facility based on clinical need and
established EMS routing protocols. Accordingly, enrollees requiring emergent
adult trauma services following contract termination will continue to receive such
services through EMS routing to the nearest appropriate trauma-designated
facility, with claims processed at in-network benefit levels.
11. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response11: To date, there are no enrollees who have a procedure
scheduled and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating post-termination.
12. On the Block Transfer Filing form, when asked, “Is the Terminating Provider
Group part of a “narrow network” product offered by the Plan?”, the Plan
answered, “yes” and listed Pathway EPO Exchange Network. The Plan indicated
Pathway EPO Exchange Network has zero enrollees in the product. Please
confirm there are zero narrow network enrollees with Pathway EPO Exchange
Network who are affected by this Block Transfer.
Plan Response12: There are 175 Pathway EPO members residing within a 15-
mile radius of the terminating hospital. As with the PPO product, EPO Exchange
members may receive care from any provider participating in the EPO Exchange
Network. However, unlike the PPO, the EPO does not include out-of-network
benefits—members must use in-network providers for coverage (except in
applicable emergency situations).
13. Please affirm that the Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
Blue Cross of California March 27, 2026
Kern Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-283 Page 5
Plan Response 13: The Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
Please submit the Plan’s response by April 3, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring