Lea Anna Tonkin
Legal Compliance Sr. Advisor
Enterprise Compliance/Regulatory Licensing/Reporting
March 31, 2026
Nune Mikayelyan
Analyst II Routing B6LPA/HHHH
Office of Plan Monitoring 900 Cottage Grove Road
Department of Managed Health Care Bloomfield, CT 06002
980 9th Street, Suite 500 Tel 860.902.6866
Leaanna.Tonkin@Cignahealthcare.com
Sacramento, CA 95814
Via DMHC Web Portal
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Community Health Partners
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-107
Filed on March 24, 2026
Dear Ms. Mikayelyan,
This is in response to your comment letter regarding the information in the above-referenced Block
Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. (Plan.)
Please review the Plan’s responses below.
1. Please confirm whether the provider group termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a stand-
alone contract.
The Plan confirms the provider group termination is part of a health system
termination and the contract is a stand-alone contract.
2. Please confirm the Contract Termination date and the Enrollee Transition date for this Filing.
The Plan confirms the contract will terminate at Midnight on June 30, 2026; the
provider group will be out of network effective July 1, 2026. The Enrollee Transition
date is July 1, 2026.
3. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Community Health
Partners impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
The Plan confirms the contract termination between the Plan and Community Health
Partners impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
4. Please confirm whether the Receiving Provider Group(s) have admitting privileges to an in-
network hospital.
The Plan confirms the Receiving Provider Group has admitting privileges to an in-
network hospital.
5. Please provide the following for each proposed Receiving Provider Group:
a. Contract termination date,
N/A, the contract is evergreen.
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 31, 2026
Page 2
b. In the case of an evergreen contract with any proposed Receiving Provider Group,
please provide the Department with:
i. Contract renewal date(s), or
The contract renewal date is January 1, 2029.
ii. If there is no specified renewal date(s), please state whether a notice of
termination has been sent or received, and
The Plan confirms that it has neither sent nor received a notice of
termination.
iii. Confirm whether each evergreen contract will automatically renew.
The Plan confirms the evergreen contract will automatically renew.
6. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s specialist network, please provide or
confirm:
a. Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the full scope
of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its enrollees,
The Plan confirms the Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers
to deliver the full scope of specialty services under the Plan’s contract with its
enrollees.
b. Any specialties available within the Terminating Provider Group that would not be
available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any specialties no longer available to affected enrollees as a result of
the proposed transition, please explain how those enrollees will continue to
access such specialty services,
The Plan confirms there are no specialties available within the Terminating
Provider Group that would not be available within the Receiving Provider
Group.
c. The name and contact information for each Receiving Provider Group responding to
this issue.
The Receiving Provider Group contact information is below:
• Jon Edwards, jedwards@santehealth.net
7. To assess the Block Transfer’s impact on the Plan’s hospital network, please provide or
confirm:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination from any of
the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals, and if so, whether that contract is
set to terminate within the next six months,
The Plan has neither sent nor received a notice of contract termination from
any of the Receiving Provider Groups’ primary hospitals.
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 31, 2026
Page 3
b. Any inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to affected enrollees
through the Terminating Provider Group that would not be available through any of
the Receiving Provider Groups,
i. For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected enrollees as
a result of the proposed transition, please explain how enrollees will
continue to access such services.
The Plan confirms there are no inpatient or outpatient hospital-based
services available to affected enrollees through the Terminating
Provider Group that would not be available through the Receiving
Provider Group.
8. To assess continuity of care for enrollees affected by the Block Transfer, please identify or
confirm:
a. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive
a procedure or service from a provider within the Terminating Provider Group within
180 days of the Termination Date,
There are zero enrollees authorized or approved to receive a procedure or
service.
b. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive
a procedure or service within 180 days of the Termination Date from a hospital
utilized by the Terminating Provider Group, but not utilized by the enrollee’s
Receiving Provider Group.
There are zero enrollees authorized or approved to receive a procedure or
service within 180 days of the Termination Date from a hospital utilized by the
Terminating Provider Group, but not utilized by the enrollee’s Receiving
Provider Group.
9. Please indicate whether the Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees
assigned to Community Health Partners.
The Plan confirms it intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees assigned
to Community Health Partners.
Please contact me directly at 860.902.6866 or via email at Leaanna.tonkin@cignahealthcare.com
should you have any additional questions or concerns.
Sincerely,
Lea Anna Tonkin
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.