DMHC BLOCK TRANSFER HOSPITAL FILING NARRATIVE (UHCCA)
Palmdale Regional Medical Center
1. eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice template
The Plan confirms it will use the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice
template for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Department’s approval required
The Plan confirms it cannot transition its enrollees or send Enrollee Transfer Notices
without the Department’s approval.
3. Enrollee Notice Mailing Date
The Plan understands that Enrollee Notices are required no later than 5 days post-
termination. The Plan may send enrollee notices as early as 30 days pre-termination,
with DMHC approval, and will notify the DMHC once enrollee notices are sent.
4. Individually contracted or part of one contract
Palmdale Regional Medical Center is part of one contract for Universal Health Services.
5. Terminating Hospital Services
a. Palmdale Regional Medical Center does provide tertiary care, quaternary care,
and/or high-level specialty services.
b. Palmdale Regional Medical Center does not provide transplant services.
c. Palmdale Regional Medical Center is not a Center of Excellence for the Plan.
d. Coronary ICU, Plastic Surgery, and Spine Surgery services are not available at
alternate hospital. The Plan confirms that the enrollee’s obligation when
accessing necessary care and services under the LOA will be at their current
(pre-termination) in-network benefit level.
6. High-Level Services
The high-level services that are available at Palmdale Regional Medical Center are:
Bariatric Surgery, Coronary ICU, Neurosurgery, Open Heart Surgery, Plastic Surgery,
Spine Surgery, and Wound Care. The Plan confirms that the alternate hospital(s)
provide the same high-level services as follows:
Antelope Valley Hospital: Bariatric Surgery, Neurosurgery, Open Heart Surgery, and
Wound Care
7. Alternate Hospital(s) Confirmation of Capacity
a. The Plan contacted Antelope Valley Hospital regarding the Block Transfer.
b. The Plan confirms no concerns were expressed regarding the capacity to
accommodate enrollees.
8. Medical group(s) that DO NOT utilize Terminating Hospital as a primary admitting
facility
The Plan confirms that the medical groups that do not utilize Palmdale Regional Medical
Center as primary are able to refer enrollees to the alternate hospitals or their
designated primary hospital for medically necessary services within the Plan’s network
that provides the same high-level services as Palmdale Regional Medical Center.
9. No impacted medical groups
The Plan confirms that there are no impacted Medical Groups. The Plan is unable to
leave the Enrollee Access section blank when submitting a Block Transfer Filing.