February 25, 2026
Nune Mikayelyan
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring
Department of Managed Health Care 980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Palmdale Regional Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-235
Filed on February 17, 2026
Dear Ms. Mikayelyan,
This correspondence is in response to the comment letter received from the Department
of Managed Health Care (the “DMHC” or the “Department”), dated February 19, 2026
related to UHC of California’s (“UHC” or the “Plan”) Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-
HOSP-235 by UHC of California (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the
Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety
Code § 1340 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit.
28, § 1000 et seq.). For ease of review, the DMHCs comments are in bold italic font,
followed by the Plan’s response.
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Palmdale
Regional Medical Center (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network.
The effective date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and
the Plan (Termination Date) is currently April 30, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would
like to discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice
for the Department’s review to include the following:
a. A brief explanation of why the transfer is necessary due to the
termination of the contract between the plan and the Terminated
Provider
b. A statement informing any enrollee of a point of service product that the
Affected Enrollee may be required to pay a larger portion of costs if he
or she continues to use his or her current providers, if applicable to the
particular Block Transfer.
Plan Response:
a. In the event of a termination, the Enrollee Notice will be sent to enrollees who
have had services in the past 12 months. These enrollees will not be
transferred to a new hospital since they are not assigned to a medical group
who uses Palmdale Regional Medical Center as a primary admitting facility.
b. The Plan confirms that there are no POS enrollees on the UHCCA License.
2. On the Block Transfer Filing Form, the Plan reports zero bed days and zero
admits for HMO and PPO enrollees. Please confirm there were zero HMO bed
days utilized, zero HMO admits, zero PPO bed days utilized, and zero PPO
admits.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there were no impacted medical groups for
UHCCA (HMO), thus zero bed days and zero admits. UHCPBCA (PPO) bed days
and admits do not apply to this UHCCA filing.
3. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and
Palmdale Regional Medical Center impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there are no POS enrollees on the UHCCA
License.
4. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that the alternate hospitals were contacted
regarding the Block Transfer and had no concerns.
5. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the
Terminating Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain
where affected enrollees will receive these services following contract
termination.
Plan Response: Coronary ICU, Plastic Surgery, and Spine Surgery services are
not available at the alternate hospitals. In the event that Palmdale Regional Medical
Center terms, the Plan will allow members to continue to go to Palmdale Regional
Medical Center for services under an LOA to ensure enrollees continue to receive
necessary care and services at their current (pre‑termination) in‑network benefit
level.
6. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response: The Plan has identified zero enrollees with an open authorization
at the terminating hospital. The Plan confirms services within 180 days of the
termination date will be at in-network benefit levels per the e-filed Continuity of Care
language. Please reference e-filing #20244811.
Thank you, and should the Department have any questions, or would like to discuss the
Plan’s response, please contact me at 763-361-2801 or via email at
smorse1@uhc.com.
Sincerely,
Samantha Uiagalelei
Regulatory Affairs Consultant; UHC Regulatory Affairs
5701 Katella Avenue.
Cypress, CA 90630