P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
«FNAME» «LNAME»
«ADDRESS1»
«CITY», «ST» «ZIP»
Dear Anthem Blue Cross Member:
This letter is to inform you that the Santa Clara Valley Healthcare (SCVH) agreement with Anthem
Blue Cross have terminated effective July 1, 2026. As a result, SCVH will no longer be a part of
the Anthem Blue Cross Commercial Network. SVHC comprises the following hospitals:
• O'Connor Hospital • Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
• Regional Medical Center of San Jose • St. Louise Regional Hospital
Anthem Blue Cross physicians who admit to SCVH have been notified of this development and
will arrange for admission of Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company members to alternate facilities. Note that the partial list of alternate facilities below
may not be participating in all Anthem networks. Please verify with your provider and/or use
the Find Care feature on the Anthem Blue Cross website at anthem.com/ca or the Sydney App
to see if the alternate facility is participating in your benefit plan’s network.
O’Connor Hospital Regional Medical Center of San Jose
El Camino Hospital El Camino Hospital
El Camino Hospital-Los Gatos El Camino Hospital-Los Gatos
Good Samaritan Hospital Good Samaritan Hospital
Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital
Washington Hospital
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center St. Louise Regional Hospital
El Camino Hospital Dominican Hospital
El Camino Hospital-Los Gatos Hazel Hawkins Memorial Hospital
Good Samaritan Hospital Watsonville Community Hospital
Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital
Washington Hospital
We realize that if you are in a course of treatment it’s important to not interrupt that care. If you
decide to keep using SCVH after June 30, 2026, you may pay more or all of the costs for the care
you receive from them.
There may be exceptions
You may be able to stay with SCVH for a designated period of time designated period of time
under California or federal law if you are receiving care for:
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
[date]
Under California Law Under Federal Law
• Are pregnant or just had your baby. • In treatment for a serious and complex
• Have a maternal mental health condition. This can be a sudden (acute)
condition that has been diagnosed by illness that requires specialized treatment in
your treating care provider. order to avoid death or permanent harm. It
• Are caring for a child up to 36 months can also be an ongoing (chronic) illness that
old. is life threatening or potentially disabling
• Are getting pre-approved care and requires specialized care over a long
(performance of surgery or other period of time.
procedure). • In a hospital or other inpatient facility.
• Have an acute condition or serious • Scheduled for nonelective surgery by your
chronic condition. current doctor, including your post-
• Have a terminal illness. operative care for the surgery.
• Pregnant.
• Terminally ill.
Questions Pertaining to CA State Continuity of Care-COC
If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may have a right to keep your
provider for a designated time period. Please contact the Anthem Blue Cross at the toll-free
customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, or the toll-free member services telephone
number on your identification card, and if you have further questions, you are encouraged to
contact the Department of Managed Health Care, which protects consumers, by telephone at
its toll-free number, 1-888-466-2219, or at a TDD number for the hearing and speech impaired
at 1-877-688-9891, or online at www.dmhc.ca.gov.
Questions Pertaining to Federal Continuity of Care-COC
If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may have a right to keep your
provider for a designated time period. Please contact Anthem Blue Cross by using the toll-free
customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, OR the toll-free member services number on your
current ID card, and if you have further questions.
An Anthem Blue Cross Customer Service representative can assist you. Eligibility for continuity of
care depends on factors outlined in your Evidence of Coverage and Anthem Blue Cross’ Continuity
of Care Policy. You can access and print the Continuity of Care Policies online by visiting our
website, www.anthem.com/ca. Begin by clicking on Member Support. Under the Support
Column, select FAQs. Next select the box entitled ‘Benefits & Claims’ to arrive at a listing of
questions. Click on the caret (^) sign next to the question, “How do I request continuity of
care/transition?” to obtain the response along with a link to the “Continuity of Care, Transition
of Care Policy”. Click on the link to access the policy. You can also access and print the Continuity
of Care Policy at anthem.com/docs/public/inline/pw_e234999_ca_jr.pdf.
Note: HMO members wishing to request continuity of care/completion of covered services should
contact their participating medical group.
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
[date]
If you are enrolled in a point-of-service (POS) plan or preferred provider organization (PPO) and
continue to access SCVH after the expiration date, you may have significantly higher out-of-
pocket costs. Your Evidence of Coverage outlines your coverage for seeking care from a provider
who is not part of our network. Also, Customer Service can provide this information.
Emergency medical services do not require pre-authorization regardless of where services are
delivered. Members may go to any Hospital for emergency services, including SCVH. This
coverage will be provided according to your policy benefits.
Your enrollment in your Anthem Blue Cross or Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company plan remains the same and is not otherwise affected in any way. If you receive a bill
from SCVH that exceeds the amount indicated as the member responsibility on the Explanation
of Benefits you receive from Anthem Blue Cross/Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company for services rendered after June 30, 2026, please contact Anthem Blue Cross at the toll
free customer service number, 1-877-971-0117, or the toll-free member services number on your
ID card, so that it may be handled appropriately.
Your health care needs are very important to us, and we are committed to providing you with
exceptional service. Please be assured that your health care coverage will not be interrupted and
that this Hospital’s termination will not result in a change to your covered benefits.
Sincerely,
Anthem Blue Cross
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.