By Christopher Hello Karen,
Loyd
Date 3/19/2026
4:20:07 PM On the Block Transfer Filing form, when asked, “Is the Terminating Provider
Group part of a “narrow network” product offered by the Plan?”, the Plan
answered, “yes”.
Regarding the Narrow Network, Pathway EPO Exchange Network, please
explain or confirm:
1) Any inpatient hospital-based services available to affected enrollees at
Terminating Hospital that would not be available at any of the Alternate
Hospitals,
Plan Reponse1: Services available to affected enrollees at the Terminating
Hospital are available at one or more of the Alternate Hospitals. The Plan
does not anticipate any problems with the ability of the alternate hospitals
to provide the same out-patient and/or in-patient services available at the
terminating facility. If there is a service identified that is a covered benefit
and only available at the terminating hospital the Plan will make every
effort to ensure services are provided at the terminating hospital. When a
covered service is not available or accessible at a participating network
hospital or specialty facility in the Plan’s’ network members will be allowed
to receive that service at a non-participating hospital as appropriate;
reimbursement at in-network benefit level.
2) For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected enrollees
post termination, how enrollees will continue to access such services. If
any, please confirm that the enrollees will be able to receive these services
at in-network benefit levels,
Plan Response2: Please refer to Plan Response1.
3) Any admitting privilege issues to the Alternate Hospital(s),
Plan Response3: There are no admitting privileges issues to the Alternate
Hospital(s).
4) Name of Provider Groups that Admit to the Terminating Hospital as Part
of the Product,
Plan Response4: There are no provider groups that primarily admit to the
Terminating Hospital as part of the product.
5) The number of admits and bed days utilized by enrollees for the most
recently completed calendar year, by enrollees in the Plan's reported
Narrow Network, and
Plan Response5: There are no admits / bed days utilized for the most
recently completed calendar year, by enrollees in the Plan's reported
Narrow Network.
6) How the Plan will meet the Knox-Keene Act’s geographic access
standards and/or Department approved alternative access standards.
Plan Response6: The Plan’s analysis determined all Zips are covered in
the 15/30 by the Alternates or contracted hospitals.
Please provide a response by March 26, 2026.
Thank you.
Chris Loyd
Supervisor I