March 19, 2026
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring
Department of Managed Health Care 980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Corona Regional Medical Center Main
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-259
Filed on March 2, 2026
Dear Ms. Litovchenko,
This correspondence is in response to the comment letter received from the Department
of Managed Health Care (the “DMHC” or the “Department”), dated March 4, 2026
related to UHC of California’s (“UHC” or the “Plan”) Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-
HOSP-259 by UHC of California (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the
Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety
Code § 1340 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit.
28, § 1000 et seq.). For ease of review, the DMHCs comments are in bold italic font,
followed by the Plan’s response.
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Corona
Regional Medical Center Main (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital
network. The effective date of contract termination between the Terminating
Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date) is currently May 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would
like to discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice (ETN) submitted for this Filing, the
following information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee
Transfer Notice for the Department’s review to include the following:
a. Doctors Hospital of Riverside is included in this filing as part of the
Alternate Hospitals, but it is not listed on the list of network hospitals.
Please also include this hospital on the ETN and resubmit to the
Department for its review.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that Parkview Community Hospital Medical
Center is known as Doctors Hospital of Riverside in the DMHC portal but known to
enrollees as Parkview Community Hospital Medical Center, therefore, the enrollee

where affected enrollees will receive these services following contract
termination.
Plan Response: Aside from services reported in the in-patient services comparison
on the Block Transfer Portal, all other outpatient and in-patient services are
available at Alternate Hospitals. Services will be referred as needed and the Plan
will work with PCP to ensure access to appropriate care.
6. The Plan indicates that the provider group PrimeCare Medical Group of Chino
Valley, Inc., will use Placentia Linda Hospital as an Alternate Hospital;
however, the Plan indicates that zero PCPs have admitting privileges to the
proposed Alternate Hospital. Please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to Placentia Linda Hospital.
Plan Response: PrimeCare Medical Group of Chino has sufficient PCPs who can
admit to Doctors Hospital of Riverside and San Antonio Regional Hospital. In the
event PrimeCare Medical Group of Chino cannot admit to Placentia Linda Hospital
through use of a hospitalist, the Plan will work with the group to ensure enrollees are
able to obtain any medically necessary services.
7. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response: The Plan has identified 27 enrollees assigned to the impacted
group(s) submitted with this filing who have an open authorization post-termination.
The Plan confirms services within 180 days of the termination date will be at in-
network benefit levels per the e-filed Continuity of Care language. Please reference
e-filing #20244812.
8. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the
Plan is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s),
please provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each
Block Transfer Filing.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that the provider group in this Block Transfer
Filing are not facing a potential contract termination within six months.
Thank you, and should the Department have any questions, or would like to discuss the
Plan’s response, please contact me at 763-361-2801 or via email at
smorse1@uhc.com.
Sincerely,
Samantha Uiagalelei
Regulatory Affairs Consultant; UHC Regulatory Affairs
5701 Katella Avenue.
Cypress, CA 90630