
and has the capacity to accept the additional membership below. I apologize for the short
notice, to comply with regulatory requirements, please “Reply All“ and provide a response by
12:00 pm on Thursday March 5, 2026.
In addition, please confirm/provide:
Provide a list of primary admitting hospitals for PROVIDENCE AFFILIATED PHYSICIANS, ST.
JOSEPH
Member Accepts yes
Group Name
count or no
PROVIDENCE AFFILIATED PHYSICIANS, ST. JOSEPH 25
PROVIDENCE AFFILIATED PHYSICIANS, ST. JUDE 6
PROVIDENCE AXMINSTER MEDICAL GROUP 2
Grand Total 33
Best regards,
Elia
ELIA ROGERS
Provider Relations Executive, Provider Experience & Operations
Cigna Healthcare, a division of The Cigna Group
O. 571.401.6529 / M. 714.313.9949 / F. 855.897.5488
CignaHeathcare.com
Please visit our dedicated provider COVID-19 resource page on Cigna for Health Care Professionals for the
most current billing and virtual care guidance, resources, FAQs, and more.
Confidential, unpublished property of Cigna Healthcare. Do not duplicate or distribute. Use and distribution limited solely to
authorized personnel. ©2025 Cigna Healthcare. Legal Disclaimer
From: Jenkins, Krista <Krista.Jenkins@stjoe.org>
Sent: Thursday, February 26, 2026 1:11 PM
To: Rogers, Elia R <Elia.Rogers@CignaHealthcare.com>; Abanto, Krystal L
<Krystal.Abanto@stjoe.org>; Wang, Meiqiao <Meiqiao.Wang@providence.org>
Cc: Navarro, Delia <Delia.Navarro@cignahealthcare.com>; O'Connor, Angie C
<Angie.O'Connor@CignaHealthcare.com>
Subject: Re: Providence Medical Foundation Block Transfer Acceptance Letter due 2/27/2026-3H
Good afternoon Elia,
Confirming we can accept the enrollment. Please use Denise as a contact for the providers.
Denise Gatewood I Director, Affiliate Networks (OC/LA)
200 W. Center Street Promenade, Anaheim, CA 92805
Work: (714) 937-6106 Cell: (714) 470-2007
Denise.Gatewood@providence.org
Hospitals:
Providence Affiliated Physicians, St. Jude - Providence St. Jude Medical Center
PROVIDENCE AXMINSTER MEDICAL GROUP - Providence Little Company of Mary Torrance
Thanks,
Krista Jenkins
Director, Provider Network Operations
Providence Medical Foundation
O (657) 208-0911 C (714) 323-6212
Krista.Jenkins@stjoe.org
From: Rogers, Elia R <Elia.Rogers@CignaHealthcare.com>
Sent: Thursday, February 26, 2026 1:03 PM
To: Jenkins, Krista <Krista.Jenkins@stjoe.org>; Abanto, Krystal L <Krystal.Abanto@stjoe.org>; Wang,
Meiqiao <Meiqiao.Wang@providence.org>
Cc: Navarro, Delia <Delia.Navarro@cignahealthcare.com>; O'Connor, Angie C
<Angie.O'Connor@CignaHealthcare.com>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Providence Medical Foundation Block Transfer Acceptance Letter due
2/27/2026-3H
Dear Team:
Re: Potential Block Transfer
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. (“Cigna”) has received a potential provider group
termination which will be effective 7/1/2026. Although negotiations continue, we are
updating our contingency plans in the event we are unable to reach an agreement. Cigna
is required to submit a Medical Group Block Transfer to the Department of Managed
Health Care (“DMHC”) identifying alternative receiving physician groups to whom
members can be assigned. As part of this Block Transfer filing, it is necessary to confirm
that the alternative receiving physician group(s) have the capacity to accept additional
membership and are willing to do so. I apologize for the short notice, to comply with
regulatory requirements, please “Reply All“ and provide a response by Friday
February 27, 2026.
Please confirm that your physician group is willing and has the capacity to accept the
membership below.
In addition, please confirm/provide:
Provide a list of primary admitting hospitals for your physician group.
Receiving physician group’s Contact Information
Person’s Last Name, First Name
Title
Phone Number
E-mail address
Member Accepts yes
Group Name count or no
PROVIDENCE AFFILIATED PHYSICIANS, ST. JUDE 6
PROVIDENCE AXMINSTER MEDICAL GROUP 2
Grand Total 8
Thank you in advance for your time and assistance.
Best regards,
Elia
ELIA ROGERS
Provider Relations Executive, Provider Experience & Operations
Cigna Healthcare, a division of The Cigna Group
O. 571.401.6529 / M. 714.313.9949 / F. 855.897.5488
CignaHeathcare.com
Please visit our dedicated provider COVID-19 resource page on Cigna for Health Care Professionals for the
most current billing and virtual care guidance, resources, FAQs, and more.
Confidential, unpublished property of Cigna Healthcare. Do not duplicate or distribute. Use and distribution limited solely to
authorized personnel. ©2025 Cigna Healthcare. Legal Disclaimer
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: If you have received this email in error, please immediately
notify the sender by e-mail at the address shown. This email transmission may contain
confidential information. This information is intended only for the use of the individual(s)
or entity to whom it is intended even if addressed incorrectly. Please delete it from your
files if you are not the intended recipient. Thank you for your compliance. Copyright (c)
2026 Cigna
This message is intended for the sole use of the addressee, and may contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from
disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the addressee you are hereby notified that you may not use, copy, disclose, or distribute to
anyone the message or any information contained in the message. If you have received this message in error, please immediately advise
the sender by reply email and delete this message.
This message is intended for the sole use of the addressee, and may contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from
disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the addressee you are hereby notified that you may not use, copy, disclose, or distribute to
anyone the message or any information contained in the message. If you have received this message in error, please immediately advise
the sender by reply email and delete this message.