Additional Narratives
Terminating Medical Group: PHS Premier Health Services IPA Network
Pending Termination Date: July 1, 2026
- The Plan confirms the following:
• This pending termination will not impact Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
• The Receiving Provider Groups have admitting privileges to in-network
hospitals.
• The Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees assigned to
the Terminating Medical Group.
• The Plan has neither issued nor received any contract termination notices
to/from the Receiving Provider Groups that would result in termination within
the next six months.
• None of the Receiving Provider Groups will have enrollees who will travel
beyond the 15 mile, 30 minute geographic access standard.
• All services provided by the Terminating Medical Group will be available
through the Receiving Provider Groups at an in-network benefit level
• The Plan has not sent or received a notice of contract termination to/from any
of the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals
• There are no inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to
affected enrollees through the Terminating Medical Group that would not be
available through any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
• Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the full
scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its enrollees.
• There are no specialties available within the Terminating Medical Group that
would not be available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
• The Plan confirms that the Terminating Medical Group is delegated for
Utilization Management for most professional services. Accordingly, the
Terminating Medical Group is responsible for issuing authorizations. As a
result, the Plan does not have direct visibility into the number of affected
enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive procedures or
services from providers within the Terminating Medical Group within 180 days
of the termination date. However, the Plan has requested this information from
the Terminating Medical Group and is currently awaiting their response.
• The Plan confirms that, based on the currently available hospital authorization
report, there are no affected enrollees who have been authorized or
approved to receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the
termination date at a hospital utilized by the Terminating Medical Group but
not utilized by the enrollee’s Receiving Provider Group.
Page 1 of 2
• The Plan acknowledges that five receiving provider groups are currently under
Corrective Action Plans. The Plan’s delegation oversight teams are actively
engaged in monitoring and working with these groups to drive effective
resolution. A total of 66 enrollees will be reassigned to these provider groups.
- The Terminating Medical Group was acquired by UC Irvine Health (part of the
University of California system) in October of 2025. As such, UC Irvine Health owns
the Terminating Medical Group. The termination notice has been issued by UC Irvine
Health. Please note that the Terminating Medical Group’s name on the term notice
from UC Irvine Health is listed as “Premier Health Plan Services, Inc. dba Alamitos
IPA, Brookshire IPA, Fountain Valley IPA, Lakewood IPA and St. Mary IPA”. However,
this name changed to “Premier Health Plan Services, Inc. dba PHS Premier Health
Services IPA Network” through an amendment executed between the Plan and the
Terminating Medical Group effective May 1, 2024.
- This Medical Group termination is part of a larger system- wide termination between
the Plan and the University of California system. However, the agreement between
The Terminating Medical Group and the Plan is a stand-alone agreement.
- The Terminating Medical Group is part of the Plan’s Narrow Network. The data
reported in this filing includes the applicable Narrow Network product information. Of
the total 514 enrollees, 100 enrollees are enrolled under the Narrow Network product.
Page 2 of 2