Lea Anna Tonkin
Legal Compliance Sr. Advisor
Enterprise Compliance/Regulatory Licensing/Reporting
April 9, 2026
Stacie Litovchenko Routing B6LPA/HHHH
Analyst II 900 Cottage Grove Road
Office of Plan Monitoring Bloomfield, CT 06002
Tel 860.902.6866
Department of Managed Health Care
Leaanna.Tonkin@Cignahealthcare.com
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Via DMHC Web Portal
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Lakewood IPA, Inc.
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-97
Filed on March 10, 2026
Dear Ms. Litovchenko,
This is in response to your comment letter dated April 6, 2026, regarding the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc.
(Plan.)
Please review the Plan’s responses below.
1. The Plan stated it "confirms that the Terminating Provider Group is delegated for Utilization
Management for most professional services. Accordingly, the Terminating Provider Group is
responsible for issuing authorizations. As a result, the Plan does not have direct visibility
into the number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive
procedures or services from providers within the Terminating Provider Group within 180
days of the termination date. However, the Plan has requested this information from the
Terminating Provider Group and is currently awaiting their response."
Can the Plan please provide the number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or
approved to receive a procedure or service from a provider within the Terminating Provider
Group within 180 days of the Termination Date?
The Plan confirms it has contacted the Terminating Provider Group multiple times
with no response. The Plan will continue to follow up with the Terminating Provider
Group and notify the Department if and when the information is received.
2. Please indicate whether the medical groups were put on Corrective Action Plans by the
Department or by the Plan.
The medical groups were placed on Corrective Action Plans (CAP) by the Plan.
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
April 9, 2026
Page 2
Please contact me directly at 860.902.6866 or via email at Leaanna.Tonkin@cignahealthcare.com.
Sincerely,
Lea Anna Tonkin
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.