Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
April 1, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Jessica Castillo
Health Net of California, Inc.
21281 Burbank Blvd.
Woodland Hills, CA 91367
Re: Approval with Conditions
Proposed Contract Termination with Adventist Health St. Helena
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-252
Filed on February 26, 2026
Dear Ms. Castillo:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) has reviewed the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Health Net of California, Inc.
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Adventist Health St.
Helena (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently May 7, 2026.
The Plan proposes to redirect affected enrollees to the following Alternate Hospitals:
• Providence Queen of the Valley Medical Center
• Sonoma Valley Hospital
• Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital
Based on the Plan’s representations and information provided through the review
process, the Department hereby approves the Plan’s Filing, subject to the following:
1. If the contract terminates, the Plan will allow its contracted providers and provider
groups to continue referring services to the Terminating Hospital after the
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Health Net of California, Inc. April 1, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 2
Termination Date, and to continue to allow all affected enrollees to receive at the
Terminating Hospital after the Termination Date:
a. any medically necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital,
but not available or cannot be scheduled in a timely manner consistent
with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or other in-
network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance, including, but not limited to, Acute Psychiatric or
b. any medically necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital
where an in-network provider holds admitting privileges at the Terminating
Hospital and is unable to admit enrollees to an Alternate Hospital or other
in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic
distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice. or
c. any medical necessary services available at the Terminating Hospital
which, due to insufficient capacity, an enrollee may not be able to access
at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility
within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely manner consistent
with good professional practice.
2. For the Plan’s affected enrollees accessing the Terminating Hospital under
Condition 1, the Terminating Hospital will continue to be deemed a participating,
in-network provider. For these affected enrollees accessing the Terminating
Hospital, the copayment, deductible, percentage coinsurance or any other cost
sharing components for care accessed under the aforementioned conditions
shall be no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would have had if
the enrollee received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior to the
Termination Date.
If a dispute arises between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan concerning the
reasonable and customary value of the provider's service, the Plan shall protect
and hold the enrollee harmless for any amount above the enrollee's in-network
copay, deductible, coinsurance or other cost sharing component.
3. For the Plan’s affected enrollees accessing the Terminating Hospital under
Condition 1, the Plan will directly pay to the Terminating Hospital, as applicable:
a. the amount required by any post-termination rates set forth in the contract
between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital,
b. the amount set forth in any negotiated letter of agreement or other
negotiated arrangement between the Plan and the Terminating Hospital
regarding the services, or
c. the reasonable and customary value of the hospital's services, less the
enrollee's established in-network copay, deductible, coinsurance or other
cost sharing component.
Health Net of California, Inc. April 1, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 3
4. The Plan will not take any adverse action, financial or other, against the
Terminating Hospital with regards to the services identified in these conditions
(this does not preclude the Plan or Terminating Hospital from utilizing any dispute
resolution mechanism that would otherwise be available). In addition, the Plan
will not take any adverse action, financial or other, against any contracted
provider for admitting affected enrollees to the Terminating Hospital in order to
receive services required by these conditions.
5. With respect to these conditions, “deemed to be a participating in-network
provider” does not apply to emergency services or post-stabilization services
rendered to Plan members at the Terminating Hospital following the Termination
Date, nor does it affect any existing statutory and/or regulatory payment
obligations with respect to these services.
6. No later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the Plan shall
provide written notice to each enrollee who has an upcoming procedure
authorized or scheduled at the Terminating Hospital within the next six
months, as well as those who had accessed the Terminating Hospital at least
once during the past year, subject to any waivers granted by the Department.
In addition, no later than five (5) calendar days after the Termination Date, the
Plan shall provide written notice to all PPO enrollees living within 15 miles of the
terminating hospital. The Plan may send this notice electronically if enrollees
elect to receive electronic notification.
The notices shall be consistent with the conditions of this Approval, including
informing enrollees of the availability to access the Terminating Hospital at in-
network benefit levels.
7. Within five (5) calendar days following the Department’s issuance of this
decision, the Plan shall submit proposed provider notices to the Department for
approval. The Plan shall not distribute provider notices until it receives
Department approval as to the form and content of the notices.
8. No later than ten (10) calendar days following the Termination Date, the Plan will
notify, in writing, those contracted providers and provider groups that may be
affected by the contract termination. The provider notices shall be consistent with
the conditions of this Approval and include:
a. the termination and effective date of termination,
b. the conditions of this Approval, and
c. the method by which providers may refer and admit enrollees to the
Terminating Hospital such that enrollees may access the Terminating
Hospital at in-network rates in accordance with the conditions of this
Approval.
Health Net of California, Inc. April 1, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 4
9. With respect to enrollees who are approved to receive Completion of Covered
Services from the Terminating Hospital, the Plan shall ensure that the copay,
deductible, percentage coinsurance or any other cost sharing component for
such care is no greater than the financial responsibility the enrollee would have
had if he or she received the services from the Terminating Hospital prior to the
Termination Date. (See Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1373.96.).
10. If the Plan reaches an agreement with the Terminating Hospital after the above
enrollee transfer notices are sent, the Plan must promptly inform the Department
and convey an additional enrollee notification to each affected enrollee, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, §
1300.67.1.3(f).
11. In the event that the effective date of removal of the Terminating Hospital from
the Plan’s network is delayed by 90 or more days, the Plan must request, and the
Department must grant, an extension of this Approval for it to remain in effect.
12. If the Plan determines that information submitted in this Filing is materially
incorrect, it will promptly notify the Department. The Plan must also promptly
notify the Department of any changed circumstances or new information that is
material to this Filing.
The Department reserves the right to revoke, modify or terminate this approval at
any time based upon changed circumstances or new information that is material
to the filing, or for non-compliance by the Plan with any of the Conditions listed
above.
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring