Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 2, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Jessica Castillo
Health Net of California, Inc.
21281 Burbank Blvd.
Woodland Hills, CA 91367
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Adventist Health St. Helena
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-252
Filed on February 26, 2026
Dear Ms. Castillo:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Health Net of California, Inc.
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Adventist Health St.
Helena (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 15, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that it will utilize the most recently approved
eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that it will not transition enrollees or issue
Enrollee Transfer Notices without prior approval from the Department.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov

Health Net of California, Inc. March 2, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 3
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that it will send a
Department approved Enrollee Transfer Notice to all PPO enrollees
residing within a 15 mile radius of the Terminating Hospital, as applicable.
‑
‑
6. The Department notes that the Plan has chosen Directly Contracted Network
(DCN) as a group that admits to the Terminating Hospital, for the Enrollee Access
section of the Block Transfer Filing Form. The Department also notes that the
Plan has stated there are no impacted medical groups. Please state whether
DCN is impacted by the pending termination or if DCN was selected because a
provider group must be chosen for Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer
Filing Form.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that Directly Contracted Network (DCN) is not
impacted by the pending hospital termination and was selected solely because a
provider group must be identified in the Enrollee Access section of the Block
Transfer Filing Form in order for the filing to be submitted.
7. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there are no outpatient, inpatient, tertiary,
quaternary, cancer, burn, or other high level specialty services available at the
Terminating Hospital that are not available at an Alternate Hospital.
‑
8. The Plan proposes Sonoma Valley Hospital and Sutter Santa Rosa Regional
Hospital as an Alternate Hospital. Please explain how the driving time/distance to
this hospital fits the normal pattern of practice for travel in the area, or
alternatively, identify any waivers or alternate access standards approved by the
Department for this area (including the filing number and approval date).
Plan Response: Hospital services in Napa and Sonoma Counties routinely
require travel between communities such as St. Helena, Napa, Sonoma, and
Santa Rosa. Patients commonly travel 30–60 minutes for inpatient and specialty
hospital care due to the distribution of hospitals along Highway 29, CA 128, and
US 101 corridors. The travel times and distances to these facilities are consistent
with the normal pattern of practice for hospital care in Napa and Sonom‑a
‑
Health Net of California, Inc. March 2, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 4
Counties, which are characterized by rural and semi rural geography and limited
north–south transportation corridors.
‑
9. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there are zero (0) enrollees with
procedures scheduled and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital
following contract termination.
10. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there are no directly impacted provider
groups documented in this Block Transfer Filing. Accordingly, no provider groups
are facing potential contract termination within the next six months, and no
additional Block Transfer Filings are required.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 9, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitorin