Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
June 9, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children’s Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-293
Filed on March 17, 2026
Dear Mr. Evan Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children’s
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 15, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. The Plan indicates in its response to Comment Letter dated June 5, 2026, that
the Plan received a two-week extension with a new termination date of July 15,
2026, to provide time to finalize the final documents for execution for the new
agreement. Please confirm whether the Plan intends to withdraw this filing.
2. For Provider Group, LaSalle Medical Associates the Plan confirms there are
91,823 assigned enrollees. Please confirm, summarize, or provide the following:
a. Whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to the
Terminating Hospital,
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California June 9, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 2
b. The pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees,
please submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate
to continuity of care and transition of care.
3. For each affected provider group that utilizes the Terminating Hospital, please
summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the provider group has routine access to the Terminating
Hospital,
b. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
4. Please confirm whether there are enrollees who have a residence or workplace
within 15 miles or 30 minutes of a contracted hospital prior to termination, but
would have a residence or workplace beyond 15 miles or 30 minutes of a
contracted hospital post-termination.
5. Please confirm whether the Terminating Hospital offers Tertiary or Quaternary
Care Services, Cancer Services, and Burn Services. If yes, please confirm which
Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
6. The Plan indicates the Terminating Hospital is a transplant center. Please provide
the following:
a. Number of affected enrollees who have or are currently receiving
transplant-related services,
b. A list of transplant patients (no patient names, just number of patients)
identifying the type of transplant, and the stage of the transplant (e.g.
undergoing evaluation, on a transplant waiting list, scheduled for
procedure or receiving post-transplant care),
Blue Cross of California June 9, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 3
c. Whether there is a separate contract for transplant services,
i. If there is a separate contract for transplant services, please
confirm whether the separate transplant contract is terminating at
the same time or within the next six months,
d. Confirmation that current and future transplant enrollees will be able to
continue receiving services through the Plan at the Terminating Hospital
following contract termination pursuant to agreed upon contractual terms,
or
e. If no contract in 6.d. exists, confirmation that the Plan has considered
allowing affected enrollees in the transplant process to continue to receive
those services at the Terminating Hospital, and the reasons for the Plan’s
decision, if one has been reached.
7. In the Plan’s response to Comment Letter dated March 25, 2026, the Plan
indicates the following high-level pediatric services are available at the
Terminating Hospital: Level IV NICU/Regional NICU services, PICU services,
Level II Pediatric Trauma services, and pediatric cancer services. Of those high-
level services, please state which of those services are available to children at the
Alternate Hospitals regardless of scope or designation.
8. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Please submit the Plan’s response by June 11, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Additional Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring