Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
May 14, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children’s Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-293
Filed on March 17, 2026
Dear Mr. Evan Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children’s
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. On the Block Transfer Filing form, in the Filing Info section, the Plan indicated
there were zero (0) bed days utilized and zero (0) admits at the Terminating
Hospital for the most recently completed Calendar Year. However, in the Enrollee
Access section of the Block Transfer Filing form, Plan indicated that LaSalle
Medical Associates has 91,823 assigned enrollees, utilized 79 bed days, and 35
non-ER admits. Please confirm the following: Based on the information currently
reflected in the Block Transfer Filing form, the Plan confirms the following for
Valley Children’s Hospital:
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California May 14, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 2
a. The total number of affected enrollees, 91,823 assigned enrollees for
LaSalle Medical Associates
b. The total number of bed days used, 79 bed days
c. The number of non-ER admits, 35 non-ER admits.
d. Whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to the
Terminating Hospital, The filing indicates utilization by LaSalle Medical
Associates at the Terminating Hospital. The Plan is confirming internally
whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to Valley
Children’s Hospital and will provide confirmation once validated.
e. If the pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees,
please submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate
to continuity of care and transition of care. Because the filing identifies
91,823 assigned enrollees, which exceeds 50,000, the Plan will submit the
relevant portions of the applicable Provider Contract(s) that relate to
continuity of care and transition of care.
2. For each affected provider group that utilizes the Terminating Hospital, please
summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the provider group has been contacted, The Plan will contact
impacted provider groups no later than 30 days prior to the effective
termination date.
b. Name of contact, phone number, and email address, The Plan will provide
the name of the contact, phone number, and email address for impacted
provider groups closer to the effective termination date, as outreach is
completed.
c. Whether the provider group expressed concerns, The Plan will document
and assess any concerns expressed by impacted provider groups during
outreach activities conducted prior to the effective termination date.
d. Whether the provider group has routine access to the Terminating
Hospital, The Plan will evaluate whether impacted provider groups
maintain routine access to the Terminating Hospital as part of the network
adequacy and continuity of care review process.
e. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals: The Plan will assess the ability of impacted provider groups to
redirect enrollees to Alternate Hospitals and will ensure continued
compliance with applicable timely access and network adequacy
requirements.
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
Blue Cross of California May 14, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 3
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
3. In the event of contract termination where the Plan removes the Terminating
Hospital from its contracted provider network, please summarize or confirm the
following that may result:
a. The total number of enrollees, if any, who have a residence or workplace
beyond 30 minutes or 15 miles of a contracting or plan-operated hospital,
The Plan will update and validate enrollee residence, workplace, provider
availability, and network data closer to the effective termination date to
determine the number of enrollees, if any, located beyond 30 minutes or
15 miles of a contracting or plan-operated hospital.
b. The number of enrollees from 3.a. within each corresponding zip code,
The Plan will update the corresponding enrollee counts by zip code closer
to the effective termination date to ensure accurate reporting
c. The Plan’s process for ensuring compliance with Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28,
§ 1300.51(d)(H)(ii). (ii) Hospitals. In the case of a full-service plan, all
enrollees have a residence or workplace within 30 minutes or 15 miles of
a contracting or plan-operated hospital which has a capacity to serve the
entire dependent enrollee population based on normal utilization, and, if
separate from such hospital, a contracting or plan-operated provider of all
emergency health care services. Prior to the effective termination date, the
Plan will conduct a timely access and network adequacy review and
update enrollee and provider data, as necessary, to ensure continued
compliance
4. For provider group, La Salle Medical Associates, the Alternate Hospital detailed in
the Services Comparison of this Filing do not provide Acute Neonatal, Acute
Pediatric, and Hemodialysis services. Please summarize how the Plan will ensure
enrollees will maintain access to Acute Neonatal, Acute Pediatric, and
Hemodialysis services at an in-network benefit level post-termination.
The Plan acknowledges that the Alternate Hospitals identified for La Salle
Medical Associates do not individually provide Acute Neonatal, Acute Pediatric,
and Hemodialysis services.
Blue Cross of California May 14, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 4
Following the effective termination date, the Plan will continue to ensure access
to these covered services through other contracted in-network providers and
facilities within the Anthem Blue Cross Medi-Cal network at the applicable in-
network benefit level.
The Plan will also continue to comply with applicable continuity of care, care
coordination, and timely access requirements for impacted members.
5. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination. The Plan is
currently validating whether any enrollees have procedures scheduled and
authorized at the Terminating Hospital for dates of service occurring after the
termination effective date. The Plan will provide the requested information upon
completion of that review.
Please submit the Plan’s response by May 20, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Additional Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring