Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
May 27, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children’s Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-293
Filed on March 17, 2026
Dear Mr. Evan Escobar:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children’s
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please provide the Department with updates to the contract termination date,
enrollee notice transfer mailing date, and transition date for this Filing, if any. The
Plan and Valley Children's Hospital remain engaged in active negotiations. The
parties have agreed to a two-week extension through July 15, 2026, to allow time
to finalize contract documents for execution.
2. For Provider Group, LaSalle Medical Associates the Plan confirms there are
91,823 assigned enrollees. Please confirm, summarize, or provide the following:
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California May 27, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 2
a. The product type, The 91,823 assigned enrollees attributed to LaSalle
Medical Associates are enrolled in the Anthem Blue Cross Medi-Cal
managed care product.
b. Whether LaSalle Medical Associates has routine access to the
Terminating Hospital, The Plan is validating whether LaSalle Medical
Associates has routine access to the Terminating Hospital and will provide
confirmation upon completion of that review.
c. The pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees,
please submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate
to continuity of care and transition of care. Because the filing identifies
91,823 assigned enrollees associated with LaSalle Medical Associates,
the impact exceeds 50,000 enrollees. The Plan will submit the relevant
provisions of the applicable provider contract(s) addressing continuity of
care and transition of care.
3. For each affected provider group that utilizes the Terminating Hospital, please
summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the provider group expressed concerns, To date, the affected
provider groups have not expressed concerns to the Plan regarding the
pending termination.
b. Whether the provider group has routine access to the Terminating
Hospital, The Plan is validating whether the affected provider groups have
routine access to the Terminating Hospital and will provide additional
information upon completion of that review.
c. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals: The Plan is evaluating the ability of affected provider groups to
redirect enrollees to the identified Alternate Hospitals following the
termination. Approximately 30 days prior to the termination effective date,
the Plan will assess provider admitting privileges, specialty coverage, and
hospital access arrangements, including the use of hospitalists where
applicable, and will provide the requested information upon completion of
that review.
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
Blue Cross of California May 27, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 3
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
4. Please confirm whether there are enrollees who have a residence or workplace
within 15 miles or 30 minutes of a contracted hospital prior to termination, but
would have a residence or workplace beyond 15 miles or 30 minutes of a
contracted hospital post-termination. The Plan will conduct an access review
approximately 30 days prior to the termination effective date to identify any
enrollees who, as a result of the termination, would have a residence or
workplace beyond the applicable time and distance standards from a contracted
hospital. The Plan will provide the requested information upon completion of that
review.
5. Please confirm whether the Terminating Hospital offers Tertiary or Quaternary
Care Services, Cancer Services, and Burn Services. If yes, please confirm which
Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s). The Plan has confirmed that
Valley Children’s Hospital provides pediatric cancer-related services through its
Cancer and Blood Disorders Center. The Plan is validating whether the
Terminating Hospital is designated as providing Tertiary Care Services,
Quaternary Care Services, and Burn Services, as well as the availability of such
services at the identified Alternate Hospitals, and will provide additional
information upon completion of that review.
6. The Plan indicates the Terminating Hospital is a transplant center. Please provide
the following:
a. Number of affected enrollees who have or are currently receiving
transplant-related services, The Plan will conduct a review approximately
30 days prior to the termination effective date to identify any enrollees who
have received or are currently receiving transplant-related services at the
Terminating Hospital and will provide the requested information upon
completion of that review.
b. A list of transplant patients (no patient names, just number of patients)
identifying the type of transplant, and the stage of the transplant (e.g.
undergoing evaluation, on a transplant waiting list, scheduled for
procedure or receiving post-transplant care), Approximately 30 days prior
to the termination effective date, the Plan will review transplant-related
utilization to identify affected enrollees, transplant type, and stage of care,
and will provide the requested information upon completion of that review.
c. Confirmation that current and future transplant enrollees will be able to
continue receiving services through the Plan at the Terminating Hospital
following contract termination pursuant to agreed upon contractual terms,
or Approximately 30 days prior to the termination effective date, the Plan
will review transplant-related utilization to identify affected enrollees,
Blue Cross of California May 27, 2026
Valley Children’s Hospital; 2026-HOSP-293 Page 4
transplant type, and stage of care, and will provide the requested
information upon completion of that review
d. If no contract in 6.d. exists, confirmation that the Plan has considered
allowing affected enrollees in the transplant process to continue to receive
those services at the Terminating Hospital, and the reasons for the Plan’s
decision, if one has been reached. In the absence of a fully executed
agreement at that time, the Plan will evaluate affected transplant enrollees
and applicable continuity-of-care considerations approximately 30 days
prior to the termination effective date and will provide the requested
information upon completion of that review.
7. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination. The Plan will
conduct a review of authorized and scheduled procedures at the Terminating
Hospital approximately 30 days prior to the termination effective date to identify
any impacted enrollees. The Plan will work with affected enrollees and providers,
as appropriate, to ensure continuity of care and will provide updated information
upon completion of that review.
Please submit the Plan’s response by May 29, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Additional Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring