Additional Narratives
Terminating Medical Group: Optum Care Network-Desert Cities
Pending Termination Date: July 1, 2026
- Please note: Optum Care Network-Desert Cities is one of the Shared Risk
groups covered under the Capitated Physician Group Services Agreement
between the Plan and PrimeCare Medical Network Inc. (an Optum entity)
- The Plan confirms the following:
(cid:120) This pending termination will not impact Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
(cid:120) The receiving provider groups have admitting privileges to in-network
hospitals.
(cid:120) The Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees assigned to
the Terminating Medical Group.
(cid:120) The Plan has neither issued nor received any contract termination notices
to/from the receiving groups that would result in termination within the next six
months.
(cid:120) None of the receiving provider groups will have enrollees who will travel
beyond the 15 mile, 30 minute geographic access standard.
(cid:120) All services provided by the Terminating Medical Group will be available
through the Receiving Provider Groups at an in-network benefit level
(cid:120) The Plan has not sent or received a notice of contract termination to/from any
of the Receiving Provider Groups' primary hospitals
(cid:120) There are no inpatient or outpatient hospital-based services available to
affected enrollees through the Terminating Medical Group that would not be
available through any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
(cid:120) Each Receiving Provider Group has the necessary providers to deliver the full
scope of specialty services required under the Plan’s contract with its
enrollees.
(cid:120) There are no specialties available within the Terminating Medical Group that
would not be available within any of the Receiving Provider Groups.
- This Medical Group termination is part of a larger system- wide termination
between the Plan and Optum. The terminating medical group is covered under
the Capitated Physician Group Services Agreement between the Plan and
PrimeCare Medical Network Inc. (an Optum entity) which is a stand-alone
agreement.
Page 1 of 1