
CignaHealthcare.com
Confidential, unpublished property of Cigna Healthcare. Do not duplicate or distribute. Use and distribution limited solely to
authorized personnel. © Copyright 2026 Cigna Healthcare. Legal Disclaimer
From: Candice Chen <ccchen@heritagemed.com>
Sent: Thursday, February 19, 2026 4:37 PM
To: O'Connor, Angie C <Angie.O'Connor@CignaHealthcare.com>
Cc: Curry, Jazmine <Jazmine.Curry@CignaHealthcare.com>
Subject: RE: Desert Oasis HealthCare Block Transfer Acceptance Letter due 2/20/2026-8W
Yes. We are willing and have capacity to accept these members.
The primary admitting hospitals are below:
Desert Regional Medical Center, Palm Springs
Eisenhower Medical Center, Rancho Mirage
John F. Kennedy Memorial Hospital, Indio
Hi-Desert Medical Center, Joshua Tree
Thanks,
Candice Chen
Sr. VP, Operations/Finance
Heritage Provider Network
Tel: (818) 357-5096
E-mail: ccchen@heritagemed.com
From: O'Connor, Angie C <Angie.O'Connor@CignaHealthcare.com>
Sent: Thursday, February 19, 2026 1:02 PM
To: Candice Chen <ccchen@heritagemed.com>
Cc: Curry, Jazmine <Jazmine.Curry@CignaHealthcare.com>
Subject: Desert Oasis HealthCare Block Transfer Acceptance Letter due 2/20/2026-8W
Dear Candice:
Re: Potential Block Transfer
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. (“Cigna”) has received a potential provider group
termination which will be effective 7/1/2026. Although negotiations continue, we are
updating our contingency plans in the event we are unable to reach an agreement. Cigna
is required to submit a Medical Group Block Transfer to the Department of Managed
Health Care (“DMHC”) identifying alternative receiving physician groups to whom
members can be assigned. As part of this Block Transfer filing, it is necessary to confirm
that the alternative receiving physician group(s) have the capacity to accept additional
membership and are willing to do so.
Please confirm that your physician group is willing and has the capacity to accept the
membership below.
In addition, please confirm/provide:
Provide a list of primary admitting hospitals for your physician group.
Receiving physician group’s Contact Information
Person’s Last Name, First Name
Title
Phone Number
E-mail address
Name physician group Members Acceptance (yes/
no)
DESERT OASIS 72
HEALTHCARE
Thank you in advance for your time and assistance.
Please “Reply All“ and provide a response by 2/20/2026.
Thank you,
ANGIE O’CONNOR
Provider Relations Executive, Provider Experience & Operations
Cigna Healthcare, a division of The Cigna Group
O: 818.500.6257
M: 818.303.5019
CignaHealthcare.com
Confidential, unpublished property of Cigna Healthcare. Do not duplicate or distribute. Use and distribution limited solely to
authorized personnel. © Copyright 2026 Cigna Healthcare. Legal Disclaimer
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: If you have received this email in error, please immediately
notify the sender by e-mail at the address shown. This email transmission may contain
confidential information. This information is intended only for the use of the individual(s)
or entity to whom it is intended even if addressed incorrectly. Please delete it from your
files if you are not the intended recipient. Thank you for your compliance. Copyright (c)
2026 Cigna