Lea Anna Tonkin
Legal Compliance Sr. Advisor
Enterprise Compliance/Regulatory Licensing/Reporting
March 16, 2026
Stacie Litovchenko Routing B6LPA/HHHH
Analyst II 900 Cottage Grove Road
Office of Plan Monitoring Bloomfield, CT 06002
Tel 860.902.6866
Department of Managed Health Care
Leaanna.Tonkin@Cignahealthcare.com
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Via DMHC Web Portal
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Empire Physicians Medical Group, Inc.
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-94
Filed on March 5, 2026
Dear Ms. Litovchenko.
This is in response to your comment letter regarding the information in the above-referenced Block
Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. (Plan.)
Please review the Plan’s responses below.
1. Please confirm Empire Physicians Medical Group and Optum Care Network-Desert Cities
refers to the same medical group.
The Plan confirms that Empire Physicians Medical Group and Optum Care Network-
Desert Cities refer to the same medical group. Empire Physicians Medical Group is
the old name for Optum Care Network-Desert Cities.
2. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following information
was found missing or incorrect. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for the
Department’s review to include the following:
a. “The following statement in at least 12-point font:
If you have been receiving care from a health care provider, you may have a right to
keep your provider for a designated time period. Please contact your health plan’s
customer service department, and if you have further questions, you are
encouraged to contact the Department of Managed Health Care, which protects
consumers, by telephone at its toll-free number, 1-888-466-2219, or at a TDD
number for the hearing and speech impaired at 1-877-688-9891, or online at
www.dmhc.ca.gov.”
The Plan is resubmitting the Enrollee Transfer Notice that includes the
aforementioned statement in 12-point font.
b. Statement informing enrollees that they may contact the Plan for language
assistance. This statement must include contact information.
The following statement is included in the Language Assistance document
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 16, 2026
Page 2
that will accompany the notice letter to enrollees. Please refer to the copy of
the Language Assistance document included with this response.
No Cost Language Services for customers who live in California and
customers who live outside of California who are covered under a policy
issued in California. You can get an interpreter. You can get documents read
to you and some sent to you in your language in a timely manner. Appropriate
auxiliary aids and services to provide information in accessible formats are
also available free of charge. For help, call us at the number listed on your ID
card or call 1-800-244-6224 for medical/dental or 1-866-421-8629 for mental
health/substance use. For more help, call either the HMO Help Center at 1-888-
466-2219 or for Non-HMO plans (e.g. PPO) call the CA Dept. of Insurance at 1-
800-927-4357.
3. Please provide the following for each proposed Receiving Provider Group:
a. Contract termination date,
The Plan confirms that none of the Receiving Provider Groups are under
termination with the Plan.
b. In the case of an evergreen contract with any proposed Receiving Provider Group,
please provide the Department with:
i. Contract renewal date(s), or
The Plan confirms there is no specified renewal date(s).
ii. If there is no specified renewal date(s), please state whether a notice of
termination has been sent or received, and
The Plan confirms it has neither issued nor received any contract
termination notices to/from the receiving groups that would result in
termination within the next six months.
iii. Confirm whether each evergreen contract will automatically renew.
The Plan confirms that each evergreen contract will automatically
renew unless either the Plan or the Receiving Provider Group initiates
termination of the agreement.
4. To assess continuity of care for enrollees affected by the Block Transfer, please identify or
confirm:
a. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive
a procedure or service from a provider within the Terminating Provider Group within
180 days of the Termination Date.
The Plan confirms that the Terminating Provider Group is delegated for
Utilization Management for most professional services. Accordingly, the
Terminating Provider Group is responsible for issuing authorizations. As a
result, the Plan does not have direct visibility into the number of affected
enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive procedures or
services from providers within the Terminating Provider Group within 180
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 16, 2026
Page 3
days of the termination date. However, the Plan has requested this
information from the Terminating Provider Group and is currently awaiting
their response.
b. The number of affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved to receive
a procedure or service within 180 days of the Termination Date from a hospital
utilized by the Terminating Provider Group, but not utilized by the enrollee’s
Receiving Provider Group.
The Plan confirms that, based on the currently available hospital authorization
report, there are no affected enrollees who have been authorized or approved
to receive a procedure or service within 180 days of the termination date at a
hospital utilized by the Terminating Provider Group but not utilized by the
Receiving Provider Group.
c. Whether a continuity of care and/or completion of covered services agreement
exists between the Plan and the Terminating Provider Group. If no agreement
exists, please provide an update on the progress, if any, of reaching an agreement.
The Plan confirms that a continuity of care and/or completion of covered
services agreement exists between the Plan and the Terminating Provider
Group.
5. Please indicate whether the plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees
assigned to Empire Physicians Medical Groups, Inc.
The Plan intends to send an Enrollee Notice to all Plan enrollees assigned to the
Terminating Provider Group.
Please contact me directly at 860.902.6866 or via email at Leaanna.tonkin@cignahealthcare.com
should you have any additional questions or concerns.
Sincerely,
Lea Anna Tonkin
Cc: Attachments
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.
March 16, 2026
Page 4
"Cigna" is registered service mark and the "Tree of Life" logo is a service mark of Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc., licensed for
use by Cigna Corporation and its operating subsidiaries. All products and services are provided by or through such operating
subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, and not by Cigna Corporation.