Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
April 8, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-281
Filed on March 18, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. On the Block Transfer Filing form, when asked, “Is the Terminating Provider
Group part of a “narrow network” product offered by the Plan?”, the Plan
answered, “yes”.
Regarding the Narrow Network, Pathway EPO Exchange Network, please
explain or confirm:
a. The number of Enrollees in the Narrow Network Product,
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California April 8, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 2
b. Any inpatient hospital-based services available to affected enrollees at
Terminating Hospital that would not be available at any of the Alternate
Hospitals,
c. For any hospital-based services no longer available to affected enrollees
post termination, how enrollees will continue to access such services. If
any, please confirm that the enrollees will be able to receive these
services at in-network benefit levels,
d. Any admitting privilege issues to the Alternate Hospital(s),
e. Name of Provider Groups that Admit to the Terminating Hospital as Part of
the Product, and
f. The number of admits and bed days utilized by enrollees for the most
recently completed calendar year, by enrollees in the Plan's reported
Narrow Network.
Plan Response1: Please refer to the responses below, corresponding to
items a–f above.
a. There are 7,179 EPO Exchange members residing within 15 mile
radius of the terminating hospital.
b. Some tertiary care would not be available (Burn services, as the
alternatives are not designated as burn centers, although they do offer
some level of burn services; and, PICU). Pls refer to c.
c. The Plan does not anticipate any problems with the ability of the
alternate hospitals to provide the same out-patient and/or in-patient
services available at the terminating facility, with the exception of some
tertiary care services (pls refer to b). If there is a service identified that
is a covered benefit and only available at the terminating hospital the
Plan will make every effort to ensure services are provided at the
terminating hospital. When a covered service is not available or
accessible at a participating network hospital or specialty facility in the
Plan’s’ network members will be allowed to receive that service at a
non-participating hospital as appropriate; reimbursement at in-network
benefit level.
d. Based on the information currently available to the Plan, no admitting-
privilege issues have been identified for the Alternate Hospital(s)
e. None. EPO members can utilize any PCP within the EPO Exchange
Network.
f. There were 7 EPO admits and 59 bed days (Note: This EPO Utilization
is included in the PPO-reported totals (48 admits/448 bed days).
Blue Cross of California April 8, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 3
Please submit the Plan’s response by April 15, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Additional Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring