Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
January 8, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Beth Lewis
California Physicians' Service
P.O. Box 2080
Oakland, CA 94604-9716
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Redwood Memorial Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-147
Filed on January 5, 2026
Dear Ms. Lewis,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by California Physicians'
Service (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care
Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and
the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Redwood Memorial
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 30, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for
the Department’s review to include the following:
a. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice using 12-point font to ensure
accessibility and regulatory compliance.
2. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
3. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
California Physicians' Service January 8, 2026
Redwood Memorial Hospital; 2026-HOSP-147 Page 2
4. The Department notes that the Plan has chosen Directly Contracted Network
(DCN) as a group that admits to the Terminating Hospital, for the Enrollee Access
section of the Block Transfer Filing Form. The Department also notes that the
Plan has stated there are no impacted medical groups. Please state whether
DCN is impacted by the pending termination or if DCN was selected because a
provider group must be chosen for Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer
Filing Form.
5. The Plan indicated on the Block Transfer Filing Form that the hospital termination
is part of the ST. JOSEPH HEALTH termination. Please confirm if the contract is
a stand-alone contract.
6. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Redwood
Memorial Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
7. The Plan indicates that Acute Neonatal is available at the Terminating Hospital.
Please confirm which Alternate Hospital provides each service.
8. On the filing form, it was reported there are 2,870 PPO enrollees within 15 miles
of the Terminating Hospital and zero bed days and admits. Can the Plan please
confirm the number of bed days and admits?
9. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
b. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all medically
necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
10. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
11. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospital:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
California Physicians' Service January 8, 2026
Redwood Memorial Hospital; 2026-HOSP-147 Page 3
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospital, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
12. The Plan proposes MAD RIVER COMMUNITY HOSPITAL as an Alternate
Hospital. Please explain how the driving time/distance to this hospital fits the
normal pattern of practice for travel in the area, or alternatively, identify any
waivers or alternate access standards approved by the Department for this area
(including the filing number and approval date).
13. The filing form states the Alternate Hospital, MAD RIVER COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL, is not evergreen; however, the contract termination date is March 1,
2099. Please confirm the following:
a. Is the contract evergreen?
b. Is March 1, 2099, the correct contract termination date?
14. Are there enrollees who have a residence or workplace within 15 miles or 30
minutes of a contracted hospital prior to termination, but would have a residence
or workplace beyond 15 miles or 30 minutes of a contracted hospital post-
termination?
15. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Please submit the Plan’s response by January 15, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as
a “Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Doyle
Elizabeth Doyle
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring