DMHC BLOCK TRANSFER HOSPITAL FILING NARRATIVE (UHCCA)
Temecula Valley Hospital
1. eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice template
The Plan confirms it will use the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice
template for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Department’s approval required
The Plan confirms it cannot transition its enrollees or send Enrollee Transfer Notices
without the Department’s approval.
3. Enrollee Notice Mailing Date
The Plan understands that Enrollee Notices are required no later than 5 days post-
termination. The Plan may send enrollee notices as early as 30 days pre-termination,
with DMHC approval, and will notify the DMHC once enrollee notices are sent.
4. Individually contracted or part of one contract
Temecula Valley Hospital is part of one contract for Universal Health Services.
5. Terminating Hospital Services
a. Temecula Valley Hospital does provide tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer,
and/or high-level specialty services.
b. Temecula Valley Hospital does not provide transplant services.
c. Temecula Valley Hospital is not a Center of Excellence for the Plan.
d. Hemodialysis services are not available at alternate hospital. The Plan will enter
into an LOA to ensure enrollees continue to receive necessary care and services
at their current (pre termination) in network benefit level.
6. High-Level Services ‑ ‑
The high-level services that are available at Temecula Valley Hospital are: Cancer,
Coronary ICU, Neurosurgery, Open Heart Surgery, Plastic Surgery, Spine Surgery, and
Stroke Center. The Plan confirms that the alternate hospital(s) provide the same high-
level services as follows:
Loma Linda University Medical Center – Murrieta: Cancer, Coronary ICU, Neurosurgery,
Open Heart Surgery, Plastic Surgery, Spine Surgery, and Stroke Center.
Menifee Global Medical Center: Coronary ICU and Spine Surgery
7. Alternate Hospital(s) Confirmation of Capacity
a. The Plan contacted Loma Linda University Medical Center – Murrieta and
Menifee Global Medical Center regarding the Block Transfer.
b. The Plan confirms Menifee Global Medial Center there were no concerns
expressed regarding the capacity to accommodate enrollees. Loma Linda
indicated “We have almost no capacity in any of our adult hospitals. We would be
happy to accept any transfer requests as we are able to accommodate but bed
capacity is severely limited overall.”
8. OSHPD licensed bed occupancy rate greater than 80 percent
Although the HCAi (fka OSHPD) data reflects that the alternate hospital is above 80%,
UHC has confirmed with the alternate hospital that they can accept transfers in the event
of a termination.
9. Medical group(s) that DO NOT utilize Terminating Hospital as a primary admitting
facility
The Plan confirms that the medical groups that do not utilize Temecula Valley Hospital
as primary are able to refer enrollees to the alternate hospitals or their designated
primary hospital for medically necessary services within the Plan’s network that provides
the same high-level services as Temecula Valley Hospital.
10. No impacted medical groups
The Plan confirms that there are no impacted Medical Groups. The Plan is unable to
leave the Enrollee Access section blank when submitting a Block Transfer Filing.