February 25, 2026
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring
Department of Managed Health Care 980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Temecula Valley Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-237
Filed on February 18, 2026
Dear Ms. Balcazar,
This correspondence is in response to the comment letter received from the Department
of Managed Health Care (the “DMHC” or the “Department”), dated February 23, 2026
related to UHC of California’s (“UHC” or the “Plan”) Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-
HOSP-237 by UHC of California (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the
Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety
Code § 1340 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit.
28, § 1000 et seq.). For ease of review, the DMHCs comments are in bold italic font,
followed by the Plan’s response.
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Temecula
Valley Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The
effective date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the
Plan (Termination Date) is currently April 30, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would
like to discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. On the Block Transfer Filing Form, the Plan reports zero bed days and zero
admits for HMO and PPO enrollees. Please confirm there were zero HMO bed
days utilized, zero HMO admits, zero PPO bed days utilized, and zero PPO
admits.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there were no impacted medical groups for
UHCCA (HMO), thus zero bed days and zero admits. UHCPBCA (PPO) bed days
and admits do not apply to this UHCCA filing.
2. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and
Temecula Valley Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that there are no POS enrollees on the
UHCCA License.
3. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The number of PPO members who reside within a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital,
b. Whether all of the Alternate Hospitals are in-network facilities for PPO
members,
c. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all
medically necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
d. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response: The Plan does not have PPO enrollees on the UHCCA license.
4. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating
Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract
termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians
or specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms, per the Enrollee Access section of the filing,
that there are no impacted medical groups.
5. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms it has not sent or received a notice of contract
termination from the Alternate Hospitals.
6. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the
Terminating Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and
specialists to at least one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all
services that will be lost should the contract ultimately terminate.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms, per the Enrollee Access section of the filing,
that there are no impacted medical groups.
7. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the
Terminating Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, or other high-level specialty
services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain
where affected enrollees will receive these services following contract
termination.
Plan Response: The Plan confirms that any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer,
or other high-level specifically services available at the Terminating Hospital are
also available at the Alternate Hospitals.
8. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response: The Plan has identified zero enrollees with an open authorization
at the terminating hospital. The Plan confirms services within 180 days of the
termination date will be at in-network benefit levels per the e-filed Continuity of Care
language. Please reference e-filing #20244811.
Thank you, and should the Department have any questions, or would like to discuss the
Plan’s response, please contact me at 763-361-2801 or via email at
smorse1@uhc.com.
Sincerely,
Samantha Uiagalelei
Regulatory Affairs Consultant; UHC Regulatory Affairs
5701 Katella Avenue.
Cypress, CA 90630