Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-281
Filed on March 19, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
3. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 2
4. The pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees. Please
submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate to continuity of
care and transition of care.
5. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and Santa
Clara Valley Medical Center impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
6. The Plan indicates that Tertiary or Quaternary Care Services are available at the
Terminating Hospital. Please confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each
service(s).
7. The Plan indicates that Burn Services are available at the Terminating Hospital
and indicates all Alternate Hospitals offer some level of burn services. Please
note that Burn Services refers to the hospital being recognized as a
“Burn Center.” Please confirm if any Alternate Hospital(s) are Burn Centers.
8. The Plan indicates that Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital. Please specify which Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital and confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
9. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
10. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 3
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
11. On the Block Transfer Filing form, in the Filing Info section, the Plan indicated
there were 11 bed days utilized and 6 admits at the Terminating Hospital for the
most recently completed Calendar Year. However, the Plan indicated in it’s
Narrative that Santa Clara IPA utilized 3 bed days, and 2 non-ER admits. Please
confirm the following:
a. The total number of bed days used, and
b. The number of non-ER admits
12. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
13. The Plan included Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford and Washington
Hospital-Fremont as Alternate Hospitals in this filing; however, these hospitals
were not included as Alternate Hospitals for Pathway EPO Exchange Network.
Please confirm whether Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford and
Washington Hospital-Fremont are Alternate Hospitals for Pathway EPO
Exchange Network.
14. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
15. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
16. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 4
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
17. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
18. Please affirm that the Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
19. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring