
P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
2. Continuity of Care/Completion of Covered Services (COC) for Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company
Members
Continuity of Care/Completion of Services-COC is considered under both (A) California State Law and (B) Federal Law.
A. Continuity of Care-COC under California State Law as explained below:
California law provides for completion of covered services/continuity of care for certain medical conditions following a
provider’s contract termination if, among other things, the SCVHC and Anthem agree on a rate of payment. The current
contract between Anthem and SCVHC has provisions that cover members for continuity of care/completion of covered
services after the contract terminates. If a member began a course of treatment at SCVHC before the contract termination
date for one of the following conditions, the member or his or her physician can request continuity of care by contacting
his/her medical group/IPA for one of the following conditions:
Under California law, this includes care if:
• Members in an active course of treatment for an acute medical or behavioral health condition
• Members in an active course of treatment for a serious chronic condition
• Members who are pregnant, regardless of trimester
• Members with a maternal mental health condition diagnosed by their treating health care provider
• Members with a terminal illness
• Members who are newborn children between the ages of birth and 36 months
The member’s participating medical group/IPA must approve all services. If approved, the claim will be covered at the
member’s in-network coverage schedule of benefits. If not approved by the member’s participating medical group/IPA, and
services are received at SCVHC, the claim may be denied as stated in the member’s EOCs.
B. Continuity of Care-COC under Federal Law as explained below:
Federal Law also provides potential COC rights. This includes care if any of the below apply. The member should contact
the Transition Assistance Department, as described below, if they believe they qualify.
Under Federal law, this includes care if:
• In treatment for a serious and complex condition. This can be a sudden (acute) illness that requires specialized
• treatment in order to avoid death or permanent harm. It can also be an ongoing (chronic) illness that is life
threatening or
• potentially disabling and requires specialized care over a long period of time.
• In a hospital or other inpatient facility.
• Scheduled for non-elective surgery by your current doctor, including your post-operative care for the surgery.
• Pregnant.
• Terminally ill.
Eligibility for Federal continuity of care depends on certain factors. Continuity of care/completion of covered services
will be considered by the Anthem on a case-by-case basis. When a case is approved, the claim is processed at in-network
benefit levels.
3. For members enrolled in benefit plans regulated by the California Department of Managed Health Care (DMHC), contracted
providers and medical groups may continue to refer members for services on or after July 1, 2026 at Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center, but only as specifically described below. Eligible services will be covered at in-network benefit levels, subject
to the conditions outlined below:
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
Anthem is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the
Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
P.O. Box 70000
Van Nuys, CA 91470
[date]
1. Anthem will allow its contracted providers and provider groups to continue referring services to the Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center after July 1, 2026, and to continue to allow all affected enrollees to receive at the Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center after July 1, 2026:
a. any medically necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, but not available or cannot be
scheduled in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or other in-
network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic distance, including, but not limited to, Burn
Center and Tertiary Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) Services, or
b. any medically necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center where an in-network provider
holds admitting privileges at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center and is unable to admit enrollees to an Alternate
Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely
manner consistent with good professional practice, or
c. any medical necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center which, due to insufficient
capacity, an enrollee may not be able to access at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital
facility within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice.
2. Anthem will allow its Pathway EPO Exchange Network contracted providers and provider groups to continue referring
services to the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center after July 1, 2026, and to continue to allow all affected enrollees to
receive at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center after July 1, 2026:
a. any medically necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, but not available or cannot be
scheduled in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice at an Alternate Hospital or other in-
network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic distance, including, but not limited to,
Abortion Services, Burn Center, and Tertiary Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) Services, or
b. any medically necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center where an in-network provider
holds admitting privileges at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center and is unable to admit enrollees to an Alternate
Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital facility within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely
manner consistent with good professional practice, or
c. any medical necessary services available at the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center which, due to insufficient
capacity, an enrollee may not be able to access at an Alternate Hospital or other in-network contracted hospital
facility within a reasonable geographic distance in a timely manner consistent with good professional practice.
4. Emergency Admissions
Emergency medical services do not require pre-authorization regardless of where services are delivered. SCVHC must still
provide services for Anthem members requiring emergency health services. This coverage will be provided according to our
members’ policy benefits.
Anthem patients who have questions about care at SCVHC following the termination should be directed to call their medical
group or our toll-free customer service number, 1-844-971-0117, or the toll-free member services number on their ID card. The
Anthem Customer Service staff is available to help our members with concerns about their ongoing care.
Thank you for your continued support during this transition.
Sincerely,
Jo Ann Nishimoto, MD, MBA, FAAP
Director of Medical Operations
Anthem is the trade name of Blue Cross of California. Anthem and Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the
Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.