Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-281
Filed on March 19, 2026
Dear Ms. Karen Choate:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Santa Clara Valley
Medical Center (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
Plan Response1: The Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling
Enrollee Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Plan Response2: The Plan will not transition its enrollees or send Enrollee
Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 2
3. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Plan Response3: The hospital termination is part of a health system termination;
the four hospitals are under a single contract.
4. The pending contract termination impacts 50,000 or more enrollees. Please
submit the relevant portions of the Provider Contract(s) that relate to continuity of
care and transition of care.
Plan Response4: Below are the Provider Contract’s continuity of care and
transition of care provisions:
Continuance of Care-Termination. If this Agreement is terminated, Facility shall
continue to provide and be compensated for Facility services under the terms of
this Agreement to Covered Individuals who are Facility inpatients on the date of
the termination until those Covered Individuals are discharged or can be safely
transferred to another facility. If this Agreement is terminated for reasons other
than the grounds set forth in the "Termination With Cause" section, Facility, at
Anthem's sole discretion, shall continue to provide and be compensated for
Facility services, as required by law, under the terms of this Agreement to
Covered Individuals who at the time of termination are receiving services from
Facility for one of the following conditions (as defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 1373.96): (1) an acute condition; (2) a serious chronic condition; (3) a
pregnancy; (4) a terminal illness; (5) care of a newborn child between birth and
age thirty-six (36) months; or (6) performance of a surgery or other procedure that
has been authorized by Plan (or the relevant delegated medical group/IPA) as
part of a documented course of treatment and has been recommended and
documented by Facility to occur within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
termination date of this Agreement. For cases involving an acute condition, a
terminal illness or a pregnancy, such services will continue through the duration
of the acute condition, the terminal illness or the pregnancy, respectively. For
cases involving a serious chronic condition, such services will continue until the
course of treatment has been completed and arrangements have been made for
a safe transfer to another participating Facility as determined by Plan in
consultation with Facility, consistent with good professional practice, such period
not to exceed twelve (12) months from the termination of this Agreement. For
cases involving care of a newborn child, as specified above, such services will
continue for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months from the termination of
this Agreement.

Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 4
Plan Response 8: The OSHPD/HCAI annual disclosure dataset shows a
positive (1) indicator for the Oncology service line at the Terminating Hospital.
For Alternate Hospital(s) where the OSHPD/HCAI dataset did not clearly indicate
Oncology, the Plan also reviewed facility websites and applied the same
indicator-level approach (oncology services offered: Yes/No) to confirm oncology
service availability at El Camino, Good Samaritan, Washington, etc. The Plan
relied on OSHPD/HCAI where definitive and used website review as
supplemental confirmation to support service-line level oncology availability,
recognizing that “Oncology” is a broad category and that website content is not
standardized or comprehensive.
9. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
Plan Response9: The Plan will send Department-approved Enrollee Transfer
Notices to all PPO enrollees residing within a 15-mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
10. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.


Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 7
Plan Response 14: HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital
have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least one of the
identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services.
15. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Plan Response15: The Plan does not anticipate any problems with the ability of
the alternate hospitals to provide the same out-patient and/or in-patient services
available at the terminating facility. If there is a service identified that is a covered
benefit and only available at the terminating hospital the Plan will make every
effort to ensure services are provided at the terminating hospital. When a
covered service is not available or accessible at a participating network hospital
or specialty facility in the Plan’s’ network members will be allowed to receive that
service at a non-participating hospital as appropriate; reimbursement at in-
network benefit level.
16. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response16: The medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating
Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently
completed calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within
the Plan’s network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating
Hospital.
17. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response17: To date, there are no enrollees who have a procedure
scheduled and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating post-termination.
18. Please affirm that the Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's Narrow Networks meet
the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards and/or Department approved
alternative access standards.
Blue Cross of California March 19, 2026
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center; 2026-HOSP-281 Page 8
Plan Response18: The Plan affirms that Alternate Hospitals for the Plan's
Narrow Networks meet the Knox-Keene Act's geographic access standards
and/or Department approved alternative access standards.
19. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Plan Response19: The provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are not
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Cindy Nguyen
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring