Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 12, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Lea Anna Tonkin
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc.
400 N. Brand Blvd. Suite 400.
Glendale, CA 91203
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Lakewood IPA, Inc..
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-PROV-97
Filed on March 10, 2026
Dear Ms. Tonkin:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Cigna HealthCare of
California, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health
Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.)
and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Lakewood IPA, Inc.
(Terminating Provider Group) from the Plan’s provider network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Provider Group and the Plan (Termination
Date) is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. The Plan identifies the terminating entity in the enrollee notice as 'PHS Premier
Health Services IPA Network.' However, the Plan’s explanation acknowledges
the group was previously known as 'Lakewood IPA' and was recently acquired by
UC Irvine Health. Please clarify if 'Lakewood IPA' is the name currently displayed
on affected enrollees' ID cards or in the most recent provider directory. If so, the
Plan must revise the notice to include the 'dba' or former name (e.g., 'PHS
Premier Health Services IPA Network, formerly known as Lakewood IPA') to
ensure enrollees clearly identify their terminating provider. Please update the
enrollee notice accordingly, and resubmit to the Department for its review.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 12, 2026
Lakewood IPA, Inc., Inc.; 2026-PROV-97 Page 2
2. Please provide the following for each proposed Receiving Provider Group:
Contract Contract Status Notice to Term?
Term. Date
Regal Medical Group (RBO)
Affiliated Doctors of Orange County Medical
Group, Inc. (RBO)
Allied Physicians of California, A Professional
Medical Corp (RBO)
AMVI Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)
Citrus Valley Physicians Group, A Medical
Corporation (RBO)
Family Choice Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)
Lakeside Medical Organization, A Medical
Group, Inc. (RBO)
PIH Health Physicians (RBO)
Professional Care Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)
Prospect Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)
Axminster Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)
Providence Medical Foundation (RBO)
Note: In the case of an evergreen contract with any proposed Receiving Provider
Group, please provide the Department with:
a. Contract renewal date(s), or
b. If there is no specified renewal date(s), please state whether a notice of
termination has been sent or received, and
c. Confirm whether each evergreen contract will automatically renew.
3. The Plan indicates in the Receiving Groups section of its Filing that Receiving
Group Allied Physicians of California, A Professional Medical Corp answered
“Yes” to a Corrective Action Plan (CAP). Please discuss the impact of this CAP
regarding the proposed Block Transfer.
4. The Plan indicates in the Receiving Groups section of its Filing that Receiving
Group Family Choice Medical Group, Inc. answered “Yes” to a Corrective
Action Plan (CAP). Please discuss the impact of this CAP regarding the
proposed Block Transfer.
Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 12, 2026
Lakewood IPA, Inc., Inc.; 2026-PROV-97 Page 3
5. The Plan indicates in the Receiving Groups section of its Filing that Receiving
Group PIH Health Physicians. answered “Yes” to a Corrective Action Plan
(CAP). Please discuss the impact of this CAP regarding the proposed Block
Transfer.
6. The Plan indicates in the Receiving Groups section of its Filing that Receiving
Group Axminster Medical Group, Inc. answered “Yes” to a Corrective Action
Plan (CAP). Please discuss the impact of this CAP regarding the proposed Block
Transfer.
7. The Plan indicates in the Receiving Groups section of its Filing that Receiving
Group Providence Medical Foundation. answered “Yes” to a Corrective Action
Plan (CAP). Please discuss the impact of this CAP regarding the proposed Block
Transfer.
8. On the Block Transfer Filing form, the Plan reports that Regal Medical Group
will be receiving 137 enrollees. However, on the Confirmation of Capacity
document attached by the Plan, the document only confirms up to 45 enrollees.
Please provide a Confirmation of Capacity for Regal Medical Group that
confirms the group's capacity to receive all 137 enrollees being reassigned. If the
Plan reassigns these members to another Receiving Provider Group, the
Confirmation of Capacity needs to confirm the additional enrollees to be received
by that Receiving Provider Group(s).
9. On the Block Transfer Filing form, the Plan reports that Affiliated Doctors of
Orange County Medical Group, Inc will be receiving 115 enrollees. However,
on the Confirmation of Capacity document attached by the Plan, the document
only confirms up to 103 enrollees. Please provide a Confirmation of Capacity for
Affiliated Doctors of Orange County Medical Group, Inc that confirms the
group's capacity to receive all 115 enrollees being reassigned. If the Plan
reassigns these members to another Receiving Provider Group, the Confirmation
of Capacity needs to confirm the additional enrollees to be received by that
Receiving Provider Group(s).
10. On the Block Transfer Filing form, the Plan reports that Allied Physicians of
California, A Professional Medical Corp will be receiving 18 enrollees.
However, on the Confirmation of Capacity document attached by the Plan, the
document only confirms up to 11 enrollees. Please provide a Confirmation of
Capacity for Allied Physicians of California, A Professional Medical Corp
that confirms the group's capacity to receive all 18 enrollees being reassigned. If
the Plan reassigns these members to another Receiving Provider Group, the
Confirmation of Capacity needs to confirm the additional enrollees to be received
by that Receiving Provider Group(s).


Cigna HealthCare of California, Inc. March 12, 2026
Lakewood IPA, Inc., Inc.; 2026-PROV-97 Page 6
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring