COC Provisions
Hospital shall continue providing Hospital Services to Members who, as
determined by Blue Shield, qualify for completion of Covered Services under
California Health & Safety Code Section 1373.96(c) ("Continuity of Care Services"),
in accordance with the provisions therein.
Additional Information
California law provides for completion-of-covered-services/continuity-of-care for certain medical
conditions following a provider’s termination if, among other things, the provider and the Plan
agree on a rate of payment. The current contract between Blue Shield of California and the
terminating provider has provisions that cover members for continuity-of-care/completion-of-
covered-services after the contract expires. It is always Blue Shield of California’s intent to be
prepared by having a Continuity-of-Care Agreement in place sufficient to meet the requirements
of Health & Safety Code Section 1373.96(c). Blue Shield of California will comply with applicable
requirements for completion-of-covered-services/continuity-of-care in accordance with the law.
If a member began a course of treatment with the terminating provider before the contract
expiration date for one of the following conditions, the member or his/her physician can request
continuity-of-care by calling Blue Shield of California’s Customer Service Department:
• Members in an active course of treatment for an acute medical or behavioral health
condition, including a maternal mental health condition,
• Members in an active course of treatment for a serious chronic condition,
• Members who are pregnant, regardless of trimester,
• Members with a terminal illness,
• Members who are newborn children between the ages of birth and 36 months,
• Members with a surgery or other procedure that was authorized by Blue Shield or a
delegated provider (i.e., HMO medical group) prior to the termination date and scheduled
to occur within 180 days after the termination date.
Eligibility for continuity-of-care depends on factors outlined in the member’s EOC. Continuity-of-
care/completion-of-covered-services will be considered by Blue Shield’s Continuity-of-Care
Department on a case-by-case basis. When a case is approved, the claim(s) is/are processed at
in-network benefit levels. Please note, HMO members and physicians wishing to request
continuity-of-care/completion-of-covered-services would not contact Blue Shield because all
medical management is delegated to the provider group. HMO members and physicians should
contact their participating medical group/IPA.