Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
January 22, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Lissette Rendon
California Physicians' Service
4201 Town Center Drive
El Dorado Hills, CA 95762
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Providence St. Joseph Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-189
Filed on January 15, 2026
Dear Ms. Lissette Rendon:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by California Physicians'
Service (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care
Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and
the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Providence St.
Joseph Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective
date of contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan
(Termination Date) is currently April 30, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Regarding the Enrollee Transfer Notice submitted for this Filing, the following
information was found missing. Please resubmit the Enrollee Transfer Notice for
the Department’s review to include the following:
a. Please include the names of all Alternate Hospitals for this Block Transfer
Filing.
Response: Plan advises in our approved Enrollee Transfer Notice
(ETN), the language indicates a listing of some of the alternate
facilities in our network. It is not prudent to list every facility in our
network; therefore, we have included instructions in our ETN to
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 2
check participating status. Hospitals don’t limit services to people
who live in specific ZIP Codes. Zone Improvement Plan areas do not
dictate where a person receives acute care services.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
Response: Plan confirms it is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or
send Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval
3. Please confirm whether the hospital termination is part of a health system
termination. If yes, please confirm the health system and whether the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Response: Plan confirms Providence Little Company of Mary MC - Torrance
contract is a stand-alone contract
4. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and
Providence St. Joseph Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees.
Response: Plan confirms the contract termination between the Plan and the
terminating hospital impacts enrollees with the Point of Service (POS)
benefit.
5. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. Whether the PPO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital
have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be
lost should the contract ultimately terminate,
Response: Plan confirms Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice
approved by the Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15-mile
radius of the Terminating Hospital.
b. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
Response: Plan confirms the PPO providers can admit for and
provide all medically necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals
6. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals:
California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 3
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals,
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
Response: Plan asserts that any admitting HMO medical groups will be
advised to redirect admissions to participating facilities. If a delegated
medical group authorizes an admission or service to the Terminating
Hospital after the contract termination date, the Plan will process the
institutional claim according to the enrollees’ Department approved
Evidence of Coverage. The Plan allows out of network referrals when a
covered service is not available, accessible, or can be provided timely at a
participating network hospital or specialty facility within the Plan’s network
and will allow members to receive that service at a non-participating
hospital, as appropriate. The member’s policy’s in-network benefit levels
are applied to authorized out of network referrals. The Plan confirms that
Plan enrollees, including POS enrollees using their HMO benefits, may
access the Terminating Hospital for authorized covered services at in-
network benefit levels.
7. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
Response: Blue Shield of California contacts the alternate hospitals
identified for each Block Transfer Filing. Contact with the hospitals’
representatives is prioritized on occupancy rates and service
inventories that are required to meet the needs of our members who
could be potentially redirected to one of the alternate facilities. The
Plan verifies that the alternate hospitals have sufficient available bed
capacity to accept additional enrollee admissions should the
contract with the terminating hospital actually terminate.
Occasionally, when an alternate hospital fails or refuses to respond
to a capacity request, it is necessary to refer to the hospital's website
and/or hospital self-reported information to the state.
California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 4
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
Response: The alternate hospitals did not express concerns
regarding their ability to accommodate the hospital-based needs of
enrollees who may be redirected as a result of the potential contract
termination between the Plan and the terminating hospital.
c. In the case of an evergreen contract with any proposed Alternate Hospital,
please provide the Department with:
i. Contract renewal date(s), or
ii. If there is no specified renewal date(s), please state whether a
notice of termination has been sent or received, and
iii. Confirm whether each evergreen contract will automatically renew.
8. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
Response: Plan confirms the HMO providers that routinely utilize the
Terminating Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and
specialists to at least one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all
services that will be lost should the contract ultimately terminate.
9. The Plan submitted University of California Irvine Medical Center as an Alternate
Hospital. According to the California Department of Health Care Access and
Information (formerly OSHPD), this Alternate Hospital has a licensed bed
occupancy rate greater than 80 percent. Please confirm the following:
a. If the Plan has contacted the hospital and whether the hospital has
expressed concerns regarding the sufficiency to serve additional Plan
enrollees,
b. The Plan’s protocol to ensure enrollees maintain access to all medically
necessary services, in the event the hospital does not have capacity to
serve additional Plan enrollees, and
c. Please provide the Department with the Plan's methodology for
determining no anticipated capacity issues.
Response: Plan uses 80 percent as the threshold for normal facility
occupancy. When available bed occupancy rates exceed 80 percent, Blue
Shield’s practice is to speak with representatives from the hospital to
ascertain if there are any capacity issues or concerns as well as identify if
the hospital has efforts to staff for potentially higher occupancy. In most
cases, hospital representatives do not have concerns related to capacity
concerns and are able to expand occupancy to full licensed bed capacity if
necessary. Blue Shield assures its members that they will have timely
California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 5
access to care. If a service is not available at an alternate participating
hospital due to capacity, scheduling delays, distance, or a lack of physician
admitting privileges, then out-of-network referrals will be reviewed on a
case by case basis. When an out-of-network referral is approved, the
member’s in-network benefit levels are applied to associated claims
10. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Response: The Terminating Hospital will be a non-participating facility after
the contract termination date. Any admitting HMO medical groups will be
advised to redirect admissions to participating facilities. If a delegated
medical group authorizes an admission to the Terminating Hospital after
the contract termination date, the Plan will process the institutional claim
according to the enrollees’ Department approved Evidence of Coverage.
The Plan allows out of network referrals when a covered service is not
available, accessible, or can be provided timely at a participating network
hospital or specialty facility within the Plan’s network and will allow
members to receive that service at a non-participating hospital, as
appropriate. The member’s policy’s in-network benefit levels are applied to
authorized out of network referrals. The Plan confirms that Plan enrollees,
including POS enrollees using their HMO benefits, may access the
Terminating Hospital for authorized covered services at in-network benefit
levels.
11. On the Block Transfer Filing form, for the provider groups listed below, the Plan
reports the same number of Specialists with Active Admit Privileges at
Terminating Hospital as the number of Specialists with Active Admit Privileges at
Alternate Hospital. Please provide a justification as to why the number of
specialists reported is the same. Additionally, please confirm how the Plan
ensures there are an adequate number of specialists that can admit to the
Alternate Hospital(s).
a. Torrance Health Association, Inc. (DBA: Torrance Memorial IPA) (RBO)
b. St. Jude Heritage Medical Group (RBO)
c. High Desert Primary Care Medical Group (RBO)
d. St. Joseph Hospital Affiliated Physicians (RBO)
e. PrimeCare Medical Group of Corona, Inc. (RBO)
f. Monarch Healthcare, A Medical Group, Inc. (RBO)


California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 8
ARROWHEAD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER 400 N. PEPPER AVENUE, COLTON, 92324
DESERT REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER 1150 NORTH INDIAN CANYON DRIVE, PALM SPRINGS, 92262
DESERT VALLEY HOSPITAL 16850 BEAR VALLEY ROAD, VICTORVILLE, 92395
EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL 1115 SOUTH SUNSET AVENUE, WEST COVINA, 91790
LOMA LINDA UNIV. MED. CENTER EAST CAMPUS HOSPITAL 25333 BARTON ROAD, LOMA LINDA, 92354
LOMA LINDA UNIVERSITY CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL 11234 ANDERSON ST., STE. A, LOMA LINDA, 92354
LOMA LINDA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER 11234 ANDERSON STREET, LOMA LINDA, 92354
LOMA LINDA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER-MURRIETA 28062 BAXTER ROAD, MURRIETA, 92563
PROVIDENCE SAINT JOSEPH MEDICAL CENTER 501 S BUENA VISTA STREET, BURBANK, 91505
PROVIDENCE ST. JOSEPH HOSPITAL 1100 WEST STEWART DRIVE, ORANGE, 92868
PROVIDENCE ST. JUDE MEDICAL CENTER 101 EAST VALENCIA MESA DRIVE, FULLERTON, 92835
PROVIDENCE ST. MARY MEDICAL CENTER 18300 US HIGHWAY 18, APPLE VALLEY, 92307
RONALD REAGAN UCLA MEDICAL CENTER 757 WESTWOOD PLAZA, LOS ANGELES, 90095
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA IRVINE MEDICAL CENTER 101 CITY DRIVE SOUTH, ORANGE, 92868
However, 2026-HOSP-189 lists the following Alternate Hospitals and does not list
all primarily utilized hospitals for enrollees that may be ultimately transferred to
Receiving Groups listed in 2026-PROV-78:
• AHMC Anaheim Regional Medical Center
• Anaheim Global Medical Center
• Chapman Global Medical Center
• Foothill Regional Medical Center
• Healthbridge Children’s Hospital – Orange
• University of California Irvine Medical Center
a. Please explain why the hospitals listed as primarily utilized for the Receiving
Provider Groups in 2026-PROV-78 are not included as Alternate Hospitals in
2026-HOSP-189. If these hospitals are not considered alternates, please
provide the justification.
Response: Plan listed alternate facilities within the 15/30 standard in 2026-
HOSP-189. In 2026-PROV-78 Plan listed all admitting facilities for the
receiving provider groups. Plan asserts Hospitals don’t limit services to
people who live in specific ZIP Codes. Zone Improvement Plan areas do not
dictate where a person receives acute care services. As a member of the
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, we pay claims for members throughout
the nation, and even internationally, for any participating Plan facility. Any
of our members or BCBSA affiliate members can receive acute care
services at a contracted hospital no matter how far away they live.
Please submit the Plan’s response by January 29, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as
a “Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
California Physicians' Service January 22, 2026
Providence St. Joseph Hospital; 2026-HOSP-189 Page 9
Jennie Balcazar
Analyst I
Office of Plan Monitoring