Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 2, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Jessica Castillo
Health Net of California, Inc.
21281 Burbank Blvd.
Woodland Hills, CA 91367
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Adventist Health St. Helena
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-252
Filed on February 26, 2026
Dear Ms. Castillo:
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Health Net of California, Inc.
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Adventist Health St.
Helena (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently April 15, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval.
3. The Plan indicated on the Block Transfer Filing Form that the hospital termination
is part of the Adventist Health termination. Please confirm if the contract is a
stand-alone contract.
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov

Health Net of California, Inc. March 2, 2026
Adventist Health St. Helena; 2026-HOSP-252 Page 3
provider group must be chosen for Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer
Filing Form.
7. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
8. The Plan proposes [insert Alternate Hospital] as an Alternate Hospital. Please
explain how the driving time/distance to this hospital fits the normal pattern of
practice for travel in the area, or alternatively, identify any waivers or alternate
access standards approved by the Department for this area (including the filing
number and approval date).
9. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
10. Please confirm whether the provider group(s) in this Block Transfer Filing are
facing potential contract termination(s) within six months. In addition, if the Plan
is required to file a Block Transfer Filing for any of the provider group(s), please
provide the name of the provider group and the filing number of each Block
Transfer Filing.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 9, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Stacie Litovchenko
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitorin