Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
Effective Date Date of Last Review Date of Last Revision Dept. Approval Date
03/30/2023 05/31/2023 05/31/2023
Department Approval/Signature:
Policy applies to health plans operating in the following State(s). Applicable products noted below.
Products ☐ Arkansas ☐ Iowa ☐ Nevada ☐ Tennessee
☒ Medicaid/CHIP ☒ California ☐ Kentucky ☐ New Jersey ☐ Texas
☐ Medicare/SNP ☐ Colorado ☐ Louisiana ☐ New York – Empire ☐ Virginia
☐ MMP/Duals ☐ District of Columbia ☐ Maryland ☐ New York (WNY) ☐ Washington
☐ Florida ☐ Minnesota ☐ North Carolina ☐ West Virginia
☐ Georgia ☐ Missouri ☐ Ohio ☐ Wisconsin
☐ Indiana ☐ Nebraska ☐ South Carolina
POLICY:
Anthem Medicaid (Anthem) is responsible for providing Access to Care, Continuity of Care
(COC) and coordination of services for medically necessary medical and mental health services
and durable medical equipment.
Members who are, or will be, receiving excluded services will be disenrolled from Anthem in
order to be eligible for the services. Anthem is responsible for ensuring continuation and
coordination of services until the member is disenrolled from the plan, unless stated
otherwise.
This policy describes the continuity of care (COC) procedures and processes to be followed by
Anthem for members who are transitioning from Medi-Cal Fee-For-Service (FFS) or another
health plan to enroll as an Anthem member.
DEFINITIONS:
Assessment: A new assessment is considered completed if the member has
been seen in-person and/or via synchronous telehealth by a network provider and this
provider has reviewed the member’s current condition and completed a new treatment plan
that includes assessment of the services specified in the pre-transition active prior treatment
authorization.
Basic Case Management: a collaborative process of assessment, planning, facilitation and
advocacy for options and services to meet an individual’s health need and provided by a
collaborative effort between the Medical Management staff, the primary care provider and
other professionals who have an active role in managing members’ health care condition and
needs. Services are provided by the Primary Care Physician (PCP) or by a PCP-supervised
Physician Assistant (PA), Nurse practitioner (NP), or Certified Nurse Midwife, as the Medical
Home. Coordination of carved out and linked services are considered basic case management
services.
Page 1 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
Care Coordination: services, which are included in Basic Case Management, Complex Case
Management, Comprehensive Medical Case Management Services, Person Centered Planning
and Discharge Planning, and are, included as part of a functioning Medical Home.
Continued Access to Care/Continuity of Care: All members have the right to continue
receiving Medi-Cal services covered under the MCPs contract, including mental health when
transitioning to an MCP even in circumstances in which the member does not continue
receiving services from their pre-existing provider. Anthem must arrange for continuity of care
for covered services without delay to the member with a network provider, or if there is no
network provider to provide the covered service with and OON provider. The process of
authorizing continuation of health care services with a terminating/ non-participating provider
under specified conditions, and for up to 12 months from member enrollment with a plan of
care to transition the member in-network. If a member changes managed care plans (MCP) by
choice following the initial enrollment, or if the member loses and then later regains MCP
eligibility during the 12 -month COC period, the 12 month continuity of care period for a pre-
existing provider may start over one time. For example, if a member enrolls in an MCP on
January 1, 2023, but then later changes to another health plan by choice on April 1, 2023,
then the 12 month COC may start over one time and the member may see the provider until
April of the following year.
If the member changes MCPs or loses and then regains MCP eligibility a second time (or
more), the continuity of care period does not start over meaning that the member does not
have the right to a new twelve months of continuity of care. If the member returns to Medi-
Cal FFS and later re-enrolls in an MCP, the continuity of care period does not start over
Durable Medical Equipment (DME): Equipment that is medically necessary as defined by 22
CCR section 51160 that a provider prescribes for a member that the member uses in the
home, in the community, or in a facility that is used as a home.
Medical Exemption Request (MER): A MER is a request for temporary exemption from MCP
enrollment into an MCP only until a member’s condition has stabilized to a level that would
enable the member to transfer to a network provider of the same specialty without
deleterious medical effects. Medical Exemption Requests (MER). Anthem is required to
consider MERS that have been denied as automatic continuity of care requests to allow
members to complete courses of treatment with OON providers.
Pre-existing relationship: means the member has seen a Primary Care Provider; Specialist; or
select ancillary provider (including PT/OT/ST/BHT/RT) for a non-emergency visit, at least once
during the 12 months prior to the date of their initial enrollment with Anthem
Page 2 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
PROCEDURE:
I. Continuity of Care Requirements
Anthem will provide COC in the following situations:
• Members transitioning from Medi-Cal FFS or from another health plan to
enroll as an Anthem member
Members who meet the COC requirements may request COC for up to 12
months after the enrollment date with Anthem if a pre-existing relationship
exists with that provider.
II. COC Provider Protections in HSC section 1373.96:
• Additional protections for members include being able to continue seeing a
terminated or nonparticipating provider, at a member, authorized
representative, or provider’s request, to complete covered services for
specific conditions outline below.
• COC protections extend to Primary Care Providers; Specialists and select
ancillary providers including physical therapy (PT); occupational therapy
(OT); respiratory therapy (RT); behavioral health treatment (BHT); and
speech therapy (ST) providers. COC protections do not extend to all other
ancillary providers such as radiology; laboratory; dialysis centers; Non-
Emergency Medical Transportation (NEMT); Non-Medical Transportation
(NMT); other ancillary services, with the exception of a prior treatment
authorization; and non-enrolled Medi-Cal Providers, Anthem is not required
to authorize ongoing treatment with a provider when the provider’s
termination is based on reasons relating to medical disciplinary cause or
reason, as defined by California Business and Professions Code Section
805(a)(6), or fraud or other criminal activity.
III. Qualifying Conditions: The medical conditions that may qualify a member for
continued Access to Care /Continuity of Care, past the normal 12 month period, may
include, but are not limited to:
• An acute condition. An acute condition is a medical condition that involves
a sudden onset of symptoms due to an illness, injury, or other medical
problem that requires prompt medical attention and that has a limited
duration. Completion of covered services shall be provided for the duration
of the acute condition.
• A serious chronic condition. A serious chronic condition is a medical
condition due to a disease, illness, or other medical problem or medical
disorder that is serious in nature and that persists without full cure or
worsens over an extended period of time or requires ongoing treatment to
maintain remission or prevent deterioration. Completion of covered
Page 3 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
services shall be provided for a period of time necessary to complete a
course of treatment and to arrange for a safe transfer to another provider,
as determined by the health care service plan in consultation with the
enrollee and the terminated provider or nonparticipating provider and
consistent with good professional practice. Completion of covered services
under this paragraph shall not exceed 12 months from the contract
termination date or 12 months from the effective date of coverage for a
newly covered enrollee.
• Pregnancy. HSC section 1373.96 requires Anthem to, at the request of a
member, authorized representative, or provider, provide for the
completion of covered Services relating to pregnancy, during pregnancy,
and immediately after the delivery (the post-partum period, which is 12
months), and care of a newborn child between birth and age 36 months, by
a terminated or non-participating health plan provider. For the duration of
the pregnancy and immediate postpartum period of 12 months. For
purposes of an individual who presents written documentation of being
diagnosed with a maternal mental health condition from the individual’s
treating health care Provider, completion of Covered Services for the
maternal mental health condition must not exceed 12 months from the
diagnosis or from the end of pregnancy, whichever occurs later.
• Terminal illness. HSC section 1373.96 requires Anthem to, at the request of
a member, authorized representative, or provider, provide for the
completion of covered services of a member with a terminal illness. A
terminal illness is an incurable or irreversible condition that has a high
probability of causing death within one year or less. Completion of covered
services must be provided for the duration of a terminal illness, even if it
exceeds 12 months from the contract termination date or 12 months from
the effective date of coverage for a new Member.
Care of a newborn child between the ages of birth and 36 months.
Completion of covered services under this paragraph shall not exceed 12
months from the contract termination date or 12 months from the effective
date of coverage for a newly covered enrollee. Surgery or other procedure
authorized by Anthem Medicaid and is scheduled to occur within 180 days
of the contract’s termination or within 180 days of the effective date of
coverage for a newly covered enrollee
IV. Processing Continuity of Care Requests:
Anthem members are notified of their right to request continued Access to Care at the
time of enrollment (through their Evidence of Coverage), whenever their provider
terminates (through their member notification letter), or during a time of transition
into Anthem from a Fee-for-Service (FFS) Medi-Cal program. Members, member
advocates, caregivers, providers, or terminating providers may contact Anthem to
Page 4 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
request continued Access to Care on behalf of the members. Customer Care Center
representatives may refer new enrollees requesting continued Access to Care directly
to the Medical Management Department
A. Acceptance of Requests: Anthem must accept COC requests from the
Member, providers or authorized representative. Requests must be
accepted over the telephone, according to the requestor’s preference, and
must not require the requestor to complete and submit a paper or online
form if the requester prefers to make the request by telephone.
B. Retroactive Requests: Anthem must retroactively approve a COC request
and reimburse providers for services that were already provided if the
request meets the following COC requirements:
• Provider must be willing to accept Anthem contract rates or
Medi-Cal FFS rates
• Requested services occurred after the member’s enrollment
with Anthem
• Have dates of service within 30 calendar days of the first
service for which the provider requests retroactive
reimbursement (i.e. the first date of service is not more than 30
calendar days from the date of the reimbursement request.
C. Requirements for Case Completion/Notification: The COC process begins
when Anthem receives the COC request. The request will begin to be
processed within 5 working days from the COC request and completed
based on the below:
• 30 calendar days for non-urgent requests;
• 15 calendar days if the Member’s medical condition requires
more immediate attention, such as upcoming appointments or
other pressing care needs; or
• As soon as possible, but no longer than three calendar days for
urgent requests (i.e., there is identified risk of harm to the
Member)
Anthem will allow continued access for up to 12 months from date of
enrollment to an out of network provider when they have been seen within
the previous 12 months if the following requirements are met:
• The provider meets Anthem’s applicable professional standards
and has no disqualifying quality-of-care issues. Under these
circumstances, a quality-of-care issue means Anthem can
document its concerns with the provider’s quality of care to the
Page 5 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
extent that the provider would not be eligible to provide
services to any other Anthem members.
• The provider is a California State Plan approve provider. (Refer
to list of suspended or ineligible providers)
• The provider supplies the MCP with all relevant treatment
information, for the purposes of determining COC, medical
necessity, as well as a current treatment plan, as long as it is
allowable under federal and state privacy laws and regulations.
• The provider is willing to accept Anthem’s contract rates or
Medi-Cal FFS rates per H&S code section 1373.9(d)(2).
• Anthem is not required to authorize ongoing treatment with a
provider when the provider’s termination is based on reasons
relating to medical disciplinary cause or reason, as defined by
California Business and Professions Code Section 805(a)(6), or
fraud or other criminal activity.
If Anthem is not able to come to an agreement with the terminated
provider or non-participating provider, or if the member, authorized
representative, or provider does not submit a request for the completion of
covered services by said provider, Anthem is not required to continue the
provider’s services. In addition to the reimbursement rate, the
terminating/non-participating provider must agree to the following:
• Continue to accept reimbursement of the Anthem-negotiated
rate as payment in full.
• Adhere to Anthem’s policies and procedures, including but not
limited to, those regarding referrals, pre-authorization and
treatment plan approval from Anthem. Provider questions about
reimbursement rates outside the continued Access to Care
program are referred to Network Support.
All Out-of-Network providers will be provided information on how they can
obtain the Anthem clinical protocols and evidence-based practice
guidelines.
D. Validating Pre-Existing Relationship:
Anthem must determine if the member has a pre-existing relationship with
the provider. This may be determined by using FFS utilization data or claims
data from an MCPA member, authorized representative or provider may
also provide information to Anthem that demonstrates a pre-existing
relationship with a provider. A member’s self-attestation of a pre-existing
relationship is not sufficient to provide proof of a relationship with a
Page 6 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
provider, instead, actual documentation must be provided, A pre-existing
relationship means the member has seen an out-of-network primary care
provider , a specialist or select ancillary provider (including PT/OT/ST/RT or
BHT for a non-emergency visit at least once during the 12 months prior to
the date of his or her initial enrollment with Anthem
Following identification of a pre-existing relationship, Anthem will
determine if the provider is a network provider. If the provider is a network
provider, then Anthem will allow the member to continue seeing the
provider. If the provider is not a network provider, Anthem will contact the
provider and make a good faith effort to enter into a contract, letter of
agreement, single-case agreement, or other form of relationship to
establish continuity of care for the member.
E. Member Notifications:
1) Assessment and Determination/Notification:
If the UM/CM Nurse cannot approve the request, the request is
referred to a Peer Clinical Reviewer (PCR) or Medical Director for
determination.
The UM/CM Nurse may determine that the member is not
eligible for continued Access to Care for non-clinical reasons.
Non-clinical reasons may include:
• Treating physician is a contracted provider, no request is
needed.
• Member, Provider or authorized representative
withdraws the request.
• Other Health Insurance is primary.
• Date of service is prior to the member’s effective date
with Anthem Medicaid.
• Course of treatment has been completed.
• Services rendered are covered under a global fee.
• Requested services are not a covered benefit with
Anthem Medicaid.
2) Member Acknowledgement Notifications: Anthem will provide
acknowledgement of the COC request within the timeframes
specified below using member’s known preference of
communication or by notifying the member using one of these
methods in the following order: telephone call, text message,
email and then notice by mail:
Page 7 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
• Non-Urgent requests within 7 calendar days
• Urgent Requests within 3 calendar days, but as soon as
possible given the members condition.
The acknowledgement will include the following:
• Notification to the member that the COC request has
been received The date of receipt of the request
• The estimated timeframe for resolution
3) Member Denial Notification: For COC requests that are denied,
Anthem will include the following information in the notice:
• A statement of Anthem’s decision
• A clear and concise explanation of the reason for the
denial
• The member’s right to file a grievance or appeal.
If Anthem and the OON provider are unable to reach an
agreement because they cannot agree to a rate, or
Anthem has documented quality of care issues with the
provider, Anthem will offer the member a network
provider alternative. If the member does not make a
choice, the member must be referred to a network
provider. If the member disagrees with the COC
determination, the member maintains the right to file a
grievance.
4) Member Approval Notification:
For COC requests that are approved, Anthem will include the
following information in the notice:
• A statement of Anthem’s decision
• The duration of the COC arrangement
• The process that will occur to transition the member’s
care at the end of the COC period
• The member’s right to choose a different in network
provider
Anthem will attempt to notify the member of the continuity of
care decision via the member’s preferred method of
communication or by telephone.
If the provider meets all necessary requirements, including
entering into an LOA or contract with Anthem, Anthem will
Page 8 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
allow the member to have access to that provider for the length
of the COC period unless the provider is only willing to work with
Anthem for a shorter timeframe. In this case, Anthem will allow
the member to have access to that provider for the shorter
period of time.
When the COC agreement has been established, Anthem will
work with the provider to establish a plan of care for the
member. At any time, members may change their provider to a
network provider regardless of whether or not a COC
relationship has been established.
The MCP must notify the member within 30 calendar days
before the end of the COC period, using the member’s preferred
method of communication. The notification will include the
process that will occur to transition the member’s care to a
network provider at the end of the COC period. This process
includes engaging with the member and provider before the end
of the continuity of care period to ensure continuity of services
through the transition to a new provider.
5) Provider Notification: If continued Access to Care will be
provided, Anthem notifies the terminating/non-participating
provider of the following:
• Specific services authorized to be provided by the
terminating/non-participating provider.
• Frequency and duration of authorized services.
• Provider reimbursement rate.
• Billing instructions for the provider.
• Toll free telephone number and address for the UM/CM
department.
• Toll free telephone number for Customer Care to verify
benefits.
• Requirements on not referring to other OON providers if
Anthem has in network providers available.
• Anthem will work with the approved OON provider and
communicate its requirements on letters of agreements,
including referral and authorization processes, to ensure
that the OON provider does not refer the member to
another OON provider without authorization from
Anthem. If there is no in-network provider, Anthem will
Page 9 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
facilitate the referral, if medically necessary, if Anthem
does not have an appropriate provider within its
network.
F. Scheduled Specialist Appointments:
At the member, provider or authorized representatives request, Anthem
will allow transitioning members to keep authorized and scheduled
specialist appointments with OON providers when COC has been
established and the appointments occur during the 12-month COC period.
If COC has not been established, but Anthem is unable to arrange a
specialist appointment with a network provider on or before the member’s
scheduled appointment with the OON provider, we will make a good faith
effort to allow the member to keep their appointment with the OON
provider. However, since the appointment with the OON provider occurs
after the member’s transition to Anthem, it does not establish the requisite
pre-existing provider relationship for the member to submit a COC request.
G. Continuity of Medi-Cal Covered Services and Prior Treatment
Authorizations:
• Following a member’s transition from Medi-Cal FFs to Anthem
or from another MCP, active prior treatment authorizations for
services remain in effect for 90 days and must be honored
without a request by the member, authorized representative or
provider. Anthem will use the Treatment Authorization Request
(TAR) data or Prior Authorization data to identify prior treatment
authorizations, including authorized procedures and surgeries,
and existing authorizations for DME and medical supplies.
• Anthem will arrange for services authorized under the active
prior treatment authorization with a network provider, or if no
network provider is available, with an OON provider. After 90
days, the active treatment authorization remains in effect for
the duration of the treatment authorization or until completion
of a new assessment by Anthem, whichever is shorter. If Anthem
does not complete a new assessment, the active treatment
authorization remains in effect and after 90 days, Anthem may
reassess the member’s prior treatment authorization at any
time.
• Durable Medical Equipment Rentals and Medical Supplies:
Anthem will allow transitioning members to keep their existing
DME rentals and medical supplies from their existing provider,
under the previous Prior Authorization for a minimum of 90 days
following enrollment with an MCP and until the new MCP is able
Page 10 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
to reassess the new equipment or supplies are in possession of
the member and ready to use.
• Continuity of DME and medical supplies will be honored without
a request by the member, authorized representative or provider.
• If DME or medical supplies have been arranged for a
transitioning member but the equipment or supplies have not
been delivered, Anthem will allow for delivery for the member
to keep the equipment or supplies for a minimum of 90 days
following enrollment and until the new MCP is able to reassess.
If the MCP does not complete a new assessment, the
authorization remains in effect for the duration of the treatment
authorization. After 90 days, the MCP may reassess the
Member’s authorization at any time and require the Member to
switch to a Network DME Provider.
H. Non-Emergency Medical Transportation and Non-Medical Transportation:
For NEMT and NMT, Anthem will allow members to keep the modality of
transportation under the previous Prior Authorization with a network
provider until a reassessment is performed.
I. Member and Provider Outreach and Education
Anthem will inform Members of their Continuity of Care protections and
include information about these protections in Member information
packets, handbooks, and on the Anthem’s website. This information will
include how a Member, authorized representative, and Provider may
initiate a Continuity of Care request with Anthem. Anthem will translate
these documents into threshold languages and make them available in
alternative formats, upon request. Anthem will provide training to call
center and other staff who come into regular contact with Members about
Continuity of Care protections.
J. Reporting
Anthem will continue to report on existing metrics related to any Continuity
of Care provisions outlined in state law and regulations, or other state
guidance documents.
K. Terminating Providers:
When an individual’s FFS provider, or Primary Medical Group
(PMG)/Independent Physician Association (IPA) terminates its contract with
Anthem or is terminated by Anthem, members are notified of the
impending termination and of their right to request continued Access to
Page 11 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
Care. Development of a transition plan addressing continuity of care is
required for those members
• For hospital termination, Anthem notifies members 60 days in
advance of termination only if that hospital is capitated and
members are assigned to a specific hospital. For non-capitated
hospital terminations, Anthem notifies members if the hospital
actually terminates.
L. Transition Care Plan
• Only patients approved for continued Access to Care can
complete their current treatment plan with the terminating
provider. Anthem members who do not meet the eligibility
requirements for continuing care with their present provider
may seek assistance from Anthem in selecting a participating
provider. Anthem will provide assistance in transitioning the
patient to a participating provider. Continued Access to Care
shall be provided for a period of time necessary to complete a
course of treatment and to arrange for a safe transfer to another
provider.
• When continued Access to Care is approved, the UM/CM Nurse
develops and documents a transition plan for the member. Plan
development includes contact with the member and the treating
provider, as needed, and the participating provider to whom the
member’s care will be transferred, as appropriate.
• The transition plan includes at least:
1) The non-participating provider’s treatment plan for the
member’s active course of treatment, for which
continued Access to Care was requested.
2) The specific treatment goal to be reached prior to
transfer to the Anthem contracting provider and the
estimated date the transfer can be safely accomplished.
M. Covered California to Medi-Cal Transition
For populations that undergo a mandatory transition from Covered
California to Anthem Medi-Cal Managed care coverage due to the Covered
California yearly coverage renewal determination or changes in a
member’s eligibility circumstances that may occur at any time throughout
the year:
• Anthem will ask these members if there are upcoming health
care appointments or treatments scheduled and assist them.
Page 12 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
Government Business Division
Policies and Procedures
Section (Primary Department) SUBJECT (Document Title)
Health Care Management Continuity of Care/Transition Assistance - CA
• If members request continuity of care, Anthem will help initiate
the process at that time.
• Anthem will contact the new members by telephone, letter or
other preferred method of communication, no later than 15
calendar days after enrollment.
• Anthem will make a good faith effort to learn from and obtain
information from the member so that it is able to honor active
prior treatment authorizations with a network provider and/or
establish continuity of care.
• Anthem will honor any active prior treatment authorizations for
90 days for services that are covered under its contract. Anthem
will arrange for services authorized under the active prior
treatment authorization with a network provider, or if there is
no network provider to provide service with an OON provider.
After 90 days, the active authorization remains in effect for the
duration of the treatment authorization or until completion of a
new assessment is completed, whichever is shorter.
REFERENCES:
• Anthem Medicaid Policy #CA_PNXX_303 “Provider Termination”
• CA_LTXX_001 Continuity of Care for Newly Enrolled LTSS Members
• California Business and Professions Code Section 805(a) (6)
• California DHCS Central Valley/Bay Area, Sacramento, Tulare County Medi-Cal Contracts,
Exhibit A, Attachment 9 and Attachment 22
• California DHCS Healthy Families Transition Amendment Exhibit A.20.1.B. A.20.1.C and
A.20.2.B.
• California Health & Safety Code 1373.95& 1373.96(d)(2)
• Department of Health Care Services, All Plan Letter #22-032 “Continuity of care for Medi-
Cal Beneficiaries who newly enroll in Medi-Cal Managed Care from Medi-Cal Fee-for-
Service, and for Medi-Cal members who transition into a new Medi-Cal Managed Care
Health Plan on or after January 1, 2023”
http://www.dhcs.ca.gov/formsandpubs/Pages/AllPlanLetters.aspx.
• LTSS Policy Continuity of Care for Long Term Care Transition
• Member Evidence of Coverage 2023
• National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA)
• Provider Operations Manual, 2023
• Suspend/Ineligible List https://filessysdev.medi-
cal.ca.gov/pubsdoco/SandILanding.aspx#:~:text=In%20accordance%20with%20W%26I%20
Code%2C%20section%2014043.61%2C%20subdivision,to%20identify%20suspended%2C%
20excluded%20or%20otherwise%20ineligible%20providers.
Page 13 of 14
The internal policies and procedures outlined herein are to be used for the Government Business Division
For Internal Use Only. Company Confidential. Do Not Copy.
CA_UMXX_029
