Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 20, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Karen Choate
Blue Cross of California
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with Valley Children's Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-294
Filed on March 18, 2026
Dear Ms. Choate,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
(Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan
Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340 et seq.) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000 et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove Valley Children's
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please submit an Enrollee Transfer Notice for the Department’s review.
Plan Response1: The Plan inadvertently provided the provider term notice
instead of the Enrollee Notice. Please refer to Enrollee Notice below:
Valley%20Children's
%20Post%20Term%2
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov


Blue Cross of California March 20, 2026
Valley Children's Hospital; 2026-HOSP-294 Page 4
Valley Children’s publicly
confirmed pediatric tertiary Alternate Hospitals offering services (publicly confirmed)
services
ECMO (NICU
CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland
specialties/services)
Neuroscience Center /
CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland
Neurology
Orthopedics CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland
Pediatric Surgery CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland
Heart Center / Cardiology CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland
CHLA; LPCH; UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland-all
Trauma Services (Level II)
Level I)
9. The Plan indicates that the services below are available at the Terminating
Hospital. As the services are available only at Alternate Hospitals that are outside
of geographical access, please confirm how enrollees will maintain these
services post termination.
a. Acute Neonatal
b. Acute Pediatric
c. "Tertiary Care Hospital" services
d. Trauma Center - Level II
Plan Response9: Publicly available information indicates that Saint Agnes
Medical Center and Clovis Community Medical Center offer NICU (acute
neonatal) services and describe these services as provided in partnership with
the Terminating Hospital. Accordingly, if the termination occurs, it may affect the
availability of certain specialized neonatal/pediatric services locally, depending
on the clinical staffing and referral/transfer arrangements used at these facilities.
Children’s LA, Children’s Oakland, & Lucile Packard Children’s are the closest
alternates to the Terminating Hospital that provides specialized pediatric care. In
California, there are only approximately a dozen children-only hospitals that
provide specialized pediatric care. As Plan members are not assigned to
hospitals, they can access any Plan in-network hospital in California for
specialized care, if needed.
Additionally, if a covered service is unavailable, inaccessible, or cannot be
provided promptly at a network hospital, the Plan allows members to receive the
service at a non-participating hospital and reimbursed at in-network benefit
levels. As mentioned previously, Plan enrollees are not restricted to specific
hospitals and may be admitted to any participating Plan hospital, including these,
Blue Cross of California March 20, 2026
Valley Children's Hospital; 2026-HOSP-294 Page 5
irrespective of the distance from the Terminating Hospital. Please refer to Plan
Response8 regarding Tertiary and Trauma Services.
10. The Plan indicates that Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital. Please specify which Cancer services are available at the Terminating
Hospital and confirm which Alternate Hospital(s) provides each service(s).
Plan Response10: The OSPD/HCAI annual disclosure dataset shows a positive
indicator for Oncology for the Terminating Hospital as well as all the listed
alternate hospitals. The Plan relies on that standardized public indicator to
confirm that each facility reports offering oncology-related services. Because
“Oncology” is a broad service-line label and hospital websites are not
standardized or comprehensive, the Plan used the OSHPD/HCAI indicator as the
consistent basis for determining that at least one of the alternate hospitals (I.e.,
Clovis, Lucile Packard, St. Agnes) have the same service category available.
11. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following:
a. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
Plan Response11: The Plan will send Department-approved Enrollee Transfer
Notices to all PPO enrollees residing within a 15-mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
12. The Department notes that the Plan has chosen Directly Contracted Network
(DCN) as a group that admits to the Terminating Hospital, for the Enrollee Access
section of the Block Transfer Filing Form. The Department also notes that the
Plan has stated there are no impacted medical groups. Please state whether
DCN is impacted by the pending termination or if DCN was selected because a
provider group must be chosen for Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer
Filing Form.
Plan Response12: The Plan confirms there are no impacted medical groups.
The Plan also confirms DCN is NOT impacted by the pending termination and
was only selected because the portal requires the selection of a provider group
for the Enrollee Access section of the Block Transfer Filing Form.
13. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
Blue Cross of California March 20, 2026
Valley Children's Hospital; 2026-HOSP-294 Page 6
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
Plan Response13: The Plan outreaches to the hospitals with occupancy
rates at 80% or higher and documented any concerns and capacity
response(s) in the filing portal. For hospitals with occupancy rates <80%,
justification is not provided as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's
capacity to serve additional plan enrollees per §1300.67.1.3(2)(L): “Based
upon the data made public on the Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development's website, for each of the proposed Alternate Hospitals,
provide the available bed occupancy rate for the most recently completed
calendar year. If the rate is at 80% or higher, please provide justification
as to the sufficiency of the Alternate Hospital's capacity to serve additional
plan enrollees.” All alternate hospitals are <80% capacity. The Plan has
NOT sent or received notice of contract termination from the Alternate
Hospitals.
14. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
Plan Response 14: HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating Hospital
have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least one of the
identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services. If a covered service is
unavailable, inaccessible, or cannot be provided promptly at a network hospital,
the Plan allows members to receive the service at a non-participating hospital and
reimbursed at in-network benefit levels.
15. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
Plan Response15: The medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating
Hospital as a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently
completed calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within
the Plan’s network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating
Hospital.
Blue Cross of California March 20, 2026
Valley Children's Hospital; 2026-HOSP-294 Page 7
16. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services
Plan Response16: The Plan does not anticipate any problems with the ability of
the alternate hospitals to provide the same out-patient and/or in-patient services
available at the terminating facility. If there is a service identified that is a covered
benefit and only available at the terminating hospital the Plan will make every
effort to ensure services are provided at the terminating hospital. When a
covered service is not available or accessible at a participating network hospital
or specialty facility in the Plan’s’ network members will be allowed to receive that
service at a non-participating hospital as appropriate; reimbursement at in-
network benefit level.
17. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
Plan Response17: To date, there are no enrollees who have a procedure
scheduled and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-
termination.
18. Please confirm that the Plan will provide notice of the contract termination to the
following:
Plan Comment: The Plan will disregard question 18 per portal conversation with
Reviewer-Elizabeth D. on 3/27.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 27, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Doyle
Elizabeth Doyle
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring