Gavin Newsom, Governor
State of California
Health and Human Services Agency
DEPARTMENT OF MANAGED HEALTH CARE
980 9th Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Phone: 916-324-8176 | Fax: 916-255-5241
www.DMHC.ca.gov
March 19, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
Evan Escobar
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc.
1121 L Street, Suite 500
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Proposed Contract Termination with St. Louise Regional Hospital
Block Transfer Filing No. 2026-HOSP-90
Filed on March 16, 2026
Dear Mr. Escobar,
The Department of Managed Health Care (Department) is reviewing the information in the
above-referenced Block Transfer Filing (Filing) submitted by Blue Cross of California
Partnership Plan, Inc. (Plan) for compliance with the requirements of the Knox-Keene
Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, as amended (Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1340
et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 28, § 1000
et seq.).
In the event of contract termination, the Filing proposes to remove St. Louise Regional
Hospital (Terminating Hospital) from the Plan’s hospital network. The effective date of
contract termination between the Terminating Hospital and the Plan (Termination Date)
is currently July 1, 2026.
Please review the following comments and feel free to contact me if you would like to
discuss any of the issues before filing the Plan’s response.
1. Please confirm the Plan will utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee
Transfer Notice Templates for this Block Transfer Filing. The Plan confirms it will
utilize the most recently approved eFiling Enrollee Transfer Notice Templates.
2. Please confirm that the Plan is aware that it cannot transition its enrollees or send
Enrollee Transfer Notices without the Department's approval. The Plan confirms it
will not transition enrollees or issue Enrollee Transfer Notices without prior
Department approval
Protecting the Health Care Rights of More Than 30.2 Million Californians
Contact the DMHC Help Center at 1-888-466-2219 or www.DMHC.ca.gov
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
St. Louise Regional Hospital; 2026-HOSP-90 Page 2
3. The Plan indicated on the Block Transfer Filing Form that the hospital termination
is part of the Daughters of Charity Health System termination. Please confirm if
the contract is a stand-alone contract. The termination is part of the broader
Daughters of Charity Health System changes; however, the agreement with St.
Louise Regional Hospital is a stand-alone contract.
4. Please confirm whether the contract termination between the Plan and St. Louise
Regional Hospital impacts Point of Service (POS) enrollees. Not applicable. The
Plan’s Medicaid line does not include POS enrollees.
5. Please indicate whether the Terminating Hospital is or provides any of the
following: St. Louise Regional Hospital primarily provides community-based
acute care services. It is not designated for transplant services or other
quaternary-level specialties.
a. Tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level specialty
services,
b. Transplant services, and if so,
i. What types of transplants, No transplant services are included in
the contract.
ii. Whether the contract termination includes the transplant contract,
No separate transplant contract exists.
iii. The termination date of the transplant contract if separate from the
hospital contract.
c. Alternate Hospitals that provide each service(s) Alternate Hospitals within
the Anthem Medi-Cal network provide comparable acute and specialty
services, including higher-acuity care where needed.
d. Recognized or designated as a hospital that provides other high-level
specialty services, such as a Center of Excellence for Bariatric Surgery,
Blue Distinction Center for Spine Surgery, etc., and if so, The hospital is
not designated as a Center of Excellence or Blue Distinction Center for
specialty programs.
i. Identify the distinguished services.
6. Based on the Department’s research, St. Louise Regional Hospital appears to
provide the following services: The Plan confirms the hospital provides: acute
care, birth services, breast cancer services, general surgery, pulmonary
rehabilitation, stroke services, and wound care.
All services are available through contracted Alternate Hospitals within the
Anthem Medi-Cal network, including but not limited to Santa Clara County
network hospitals and regional tertiary facilities.
a. Acute Care services
b. Birth services,
c. Breast cancer services,
d. General surgery services,
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
St. Louise Regional Hospital; 2026-HOSP-90 Page 3
e. Pulmonary rehabilitation services,
f. Stroke services, and
g. Wound care and hyperbaric medicine services.
Please state which Alternate Hospitals provide these services. Please state any
service that is provided at the Terminating Hospital and was not listed.
7. The Plan’s PPO line of business is licensed by the Department. Please confirm
the following: Not applicable.
a. The number of PPO members who reside within a 15 mile radius of the
Terminating Hospital,
b. Whether all of the Alternate Hospitals are in-network facilities for PPO
members,
c. Whether the Plan’s PPO providers can admit for and provide all medically
necessary services at the Alternate Hospitals,
d. The Plan will send an Enrollee Transfer Notice approved by the
Department to all PPO enrollees with a 15 mile radius of the Terminating
Hospital.
8. For each affected provider group that primarily utilizes the Terminating Hospital,
please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The ability of the provider group to redirect enrollees to the Alternate
Hospitals: The Plan confirms that affected provider groups have the ability
to redirect members to Alternate Hospitals.
i. Whether there is any specialty for which all of the associated
specialists have admitting privileges only at the Terminating
Hospital and not at any of the Alternate Hospitals, No specialties
are limited exclusively to St. Louise Regional Hospital.
1. If yes, please identify the specialty and explain how Plan
enrollees assigned to the provider group will receive care
and services for that specialty following contract termination.
ii. If the provider group does not have any primary care physicians or
specialists with admitting privileges to one or more Alternate
Hospitals, please explain how its assigned enrollees will be
admitted to the Alternate Hospital(s) (e.g. via hospitalists, Plan
admission process, etc.).
1. If hospitalists are utilized, please indicate:
a. The name of the group,
b. The number of associated hospitalists, and
c. If the hospitalists can admit enrollees for any
medically necessary services.
9. The Plan indicates that Physicians Medical Group of San Jose, Inc. maintains a
service contract with the Terminating Hospital. Please confirm that, in the event
of contract termination:
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
St. Louise Regional Hospital; 2026-HOSP-90 Page 4
a. The specified provider group shall continue to refer enrollees to the
Terminating Hospital for all medically necessary services consistent with
the provider group’s current referral patterns and practice, Physicians
Medical Group of San Jose, Inc. will continue referral patterns consistent
with existing arrangements where applicable.
b. Plan enrollees will not be redirected and will be allowed continued access
to the Terminating Hospital at their current (pre-termination) in-network
benefit rates, Enrollees assigned to this group will maintain access to St.
Louise Regional Hospital at current in-network benefit levels, if the
provider group contract remains active.
c. Enrollee Notices will not be sent to enrollees assigned to the specified
provider group, Enrollee Notices will not be sent to these enrollees
d. The Plan will timely submit a Block Transfer filing prior to the termination
of the contract between Physicians Medical Group of San Jose, Inc. and
St. Louise Regional Hospital. The Plan will submit a separate Block
Transfer filing if that contract terminates.
10. The Plan indicates Enrollee Notices will not be sent to enrollees assigned to the
specified provider group(s): Physicians Medical Group of San Jose, Inc. The
Plan, however, must request a waiver from the enrollee transfer notice
requirements, pursuant to Rule 1300.67.1.3(e) and Section 1373.65(b) in order to
appropriately exclude the noted enrollees from receiving Enrollee Transfer
Notices. Please submit a waiver from the enrollee transfer notice requirements.
Plan Response: A waiver was requested in the original filing. Please see the
screenshot below.
11. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
St. Louise Regional Hospital; 2026-HOSP-90 Page 5
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the
Block Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
Plan Response: in progress
12. Please confirm whether the HMO providers that routinely utilize the Terminating
Hospital have adequate admitting privileges for PCPs and specialists to at least
one of the identified Alternate Hospitals containing all services that will be lost
should the contract ultimately terminate. The Plan confirms that contracted
Medicaid provider groups maintain adequate admitting privileges at Alternate
Hospitals capable of providing all required services.
13. The Plan submitted SUTTER MATERNITY AND SURGERY CENTER OF
SANTA CRUZ as an Alternate Hospital. According to the California Department
of Health Care Access and Information (formerly OSHPD), this Alternate Hospital
has a licensed bed occupancy rate greater than 80 percent. Please confirm the
following:
a. If the Plan has contacted the hospital and whether the hospital has
expressed concerns regarding the sufficiency to serve additional Plan
enrollees,
b. The Plan’s protocol to ensure enrollees maintain access to all medically
necessary services, in the event the hospital does not have capacity to
serve additional Plan enrollees, and
c. Please provide the Department with the Plan's methodology for
determining no anticipated capacity issues.
Plan Response: in progress
14. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer portal,
please indicate any of the following services that are available at the Terminating
Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals: The Plan is not aware of
any material services provided at St. Louise Regional Hospital that are not
available through Alternate Hospitals in the network. Members requiring higher-
level services will be referred to appropriate contracted facilities.
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
c. Any transplant services.
Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. March 19, 2026
St. Louise Regional Hospital; 2026-HOSP-90 Page 6
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain where
affected enrollees will receive these services following contract termination.
15. Please confirm the medical groups that do not utilize the Terminating Hospital as
a primary hospital, but have admitted enrollees for the most recently completed
calendar year, are able to refer their enrollees to other hospitals within the Plan’s
network for services comparable to those provided by the Terminating Hospital.
The Plan confirms that provider groups not primarily utilizing St. Louise Regional
Hospital are able to refer members to other in-network hospitals for comparable
services.
16. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled and
authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination. The Plan is
currently assessing members with scheduled and authorized procedures post-
termination and will ensure continuity of care in accordance with regulatory
requirements.
Please submit the Plan’s response by March 26, 2026, via the Block Transfer portal as a
“Response to Comment Letter.”
Please contact me if there are any questions regarding the above.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Doyle
Elizabeth Doyle
Analyst II
Office of Plan Monitoring