
To evan.escobar@anthem.com
Cc EDoyle@dmhc.ca.gov; PWon@dmhc.ca.gov
By Evan Escobar Hello, An extension has been received and the new termination date is
Date 5/29/2026 8:58:35 AM 10/1/26.
To Not Available
Cc Not Available
By Elizabeth Doyle
Date 5/27/2026 9:36:14 AM Hello,
I am following up on the comment submitted on May 19, 2026.
Please note that the filing needs the information requested to complete the
review.
Please respond as soon as possible.
Thank you.
To evan.escobar@anthem.com
Cc EDoyle@dmhc.ca.gov; PWon@dmhc.ca.gov
By Elizabeth Doyle
Date 5/19/2026 5:18:23 PM Hello,
The Department is requesting an update to the following questions below
which were submitted in the original comment letter:
1. The Plan submitted SUTTER MATERNITY AND SURGERY CENTER OF
SANTA CRUZ as an Alternate Hospital. According to the California
Department of Health Care Access and Information (formerly OSHPD), this
Alternate Hospital has a licensed bed occupancy rate greater than 80
percent. Please confirm the following:
a. If the Plan has contacted the hospital and whether the hospital has
expressed concerns regarding the sufficiency to serve additional Plan
enrollees,
b. The Plan’s protocol to ensure enrollees maintain access to all medically
necessary services, in the event the hospital does not have capacity to serve
additional Plan enrollees, and
c. Please provide the Department with the Plan's methodology for
determining no anticipated capacity issues.
2. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b. Any concerns expressed by the hospital regarding its ability to
accommodate the hospital-based needs of enrollees redirected by the Block
Transfer,
c. Whether the Plan has sent or received a notice of contract termination
from the Alternate Hospital, and if so, whether that contract is set to
terminate within the next six months.
3. Please identify the number of enrollees who have a procedure scheduled
and authorized by the Plan at the Terminating Hospital post-termination.
4. In addition to the in-patient services comparison on the Block Transfer
portal, please indicate any of the following services that are available at the
Terminating Hospital, but not available at the Alternate Hospitals:
a. Any out-patient or in-patient services,
b. Any tertiary care, quaternary care, cancer, burn or other high-level
specialty services,
c. Any transplant services.
If any services are not available at the Alternate Hospitals, please explain
where affected enrollees will receive these services following contract
termination.
As the enrollee transfer date is June 1, 2026, please respond by the end of
day, Friday May 22, 2026, at the latest.
Thank you,
Elizabeth
To evan.escobar@anthem.com
Cc EDoyle@dmhc.ca.gov
By Elizabeth
Doyle
Date 5/19/2026
Hello,
5:17:27 PM
The Department is requesting an update to the following questions below
which were submitted in the original comment letter:
1. The Plan submitted SUTTER MATERNITY AND SURGERY CENTER OF
SANTA CRUZ as an Alternate Hospital. According to the California
Department of Health Care Access and Information (formerly
OSHPD), this Alternate Hospital has a licensed bed occupancy rate
greater than 80 percent. Please confirm the following:
a. If the Plan has contacted the hospital and whether the hospital
has expressed concerns regarding the sufficiency to serve To evan.esco
additional Plan enrollees, bar@anthem.
com
b. The Plan’s protocol to ensure enrollees maintain access to all
medically necessary services, in the event the hospital does
not have capacity to serve additional Plan enrollees, and
c. Please provide the Department with the Plan's methodology for
determining no anticipated capacity issues.
2. For each Alternate Hospital, please summarize or confirm the
following:
a. The Plan contacted the hospital regarding the Block Transfer,
b.
Cc EDoyle@dmhc.ca.gov
